5. Life-saving appliances and arrangements

Section 36. Lifejackets
(1) Vessels shall have a type-approved lifejacket for every person on board.
(2) Lifejackets shall be kept readily available in the vicinity of the life-saving appliances in a clearly marked place. Information about the location, treatment and use of the lifejackets shall be posted on board.

Section 37. Immersion suits
(1) Decked vessels and open vessels with wheelhouse shall have a type-approved immersion suit with thermal properties for every person on board. Immersion suits procured after 1 July 2014 shall also satisfy the requirements for buoyancy and stability for lifejackets in the International Life-Saving Appliance Code (LSA Code).
(2) Immersion suits shall be fitted with:
a)	a loop/strap or similar device with an appropriate hooking and holding arrangement for use with hoisting tackle.

The suit and loop/strap shall, when a person is wearing the suit, not be damaged when exposed to a load of at least 300 kg;
b)	a signal whistle which is secured to the suit by a lanyard; and

c)	a light satisfying the requirements of the LSA Code for lifejacket lights.

(3) Loop/strap, grabline, whistle, lights, etc. shall be so secured as not to impair the properties of the suit or interfere with the use of the suit.
(4) Lifejackets and immersion suits shall be marked in such a way that they can be traced back to the vessel where the equipment is used.
(5) Immersion suits which are 8 years old or more, shall be pressure-tested/tested for tightness at an approved servicing station. The suit shall thereafter be pressure-tested/tested for tightness at intervals not exceeding 36 months, but not more often than recommended by the manufacturer.
(6) Persons not able to use a standard immersion suit shall have an immersion suit of adapted size on board, and the immersion suit shall be clearly marked.
(7) The immersion suits shall be kept in a suitable and clearly marked place in or in the vicinity of the wheelhouse. For vessels with more than one immersion suit per person, the additional immersion suits shall be available in an easily accessible place. Posters or placards with information about the placement, treatment and use of immersion suits shall be posted on board.

Section 38. Liferaft
(1) Decked vessels of more than 6 metres in overall length shall have a type-approved liferaft with capacity for the total number of persons on board.
(2) Vessels with a maximum of three persons on board may as an alternative to a type-approved liferaft use a liferaft intended for at least four persons and manufactured in accordance with ISO 9650-1 (Group A), provided that the raft is placed maximum three metres above the waterline in the least favourable loading condition. The buoyancy of the raft shall be in accordance with the requirements of the LSA Code for buoyancy of float-free lifeboats.
(3) Vessels with a liferaft for recreational craft for four people shall replace these with rafts pursuant to the first or second paragraph by:
a)	1 July 2015 for vessels operating in trade area In-shore fishing;

b)	1 July 2016 for vessels operating in trade area Fjord fishing.

(4) Inflatable liferafts shall be inspected by an approved service station for inflatable liferafts at least every 24 months, in line with the manufacturer's recommendations and approval criteria.
(5) Liferafts shall be ready for use and so placed as to permit them to float free from their stowage, inflate and break free from the vessel in the event of its sinking. Lashings, if used, shall have a hydrostatic release system.
(6) Posters or placards with information about the location, treatment and use of the rafts shall be posted on board.
(7) Auxiliary vessels need not have a liferaft if the crew is only on board during fishing activities and are otherwise on board the main vessel.

Section 39. Placement of life-saving appliances
(1) The life-saving appliances shall as far as possible be equally distributed on each side of the vessel, and be placed so that there is sufficient space for preparation, operation and embarkation.
(2) The life-saving appliances shall be placed so that they do not protrude from the vessel's sides, at a safe distance from the waterline and propellers, and so that they as far as practicable can be launched with vertical shipside.
(3) It shall be possible for one person to launch the life-saving appliances by himself.

Section 40. Alarm equipment
Vessels shall have suitable means for alerting everyone on board about meeting at the life-saving appliances and about when the vessel should be abandoned.

Section 41. Boarding of life-saving appliances
Vessels on which the height from the water plane to where the life-saving appliances are to be boarded is more than two metres in the smallest draught in ballast, shall have a ladder or other approved equipment providing access to the life-saving appliances when they are in the water.

Section 42. Precautions for keeping life-saving appliances and other rescue equipment ready for use
All life-saving appliances and other rescue equipment shall be in good condition and ready for immediate use, also in unfavourable conditions of list or trim.

Section 43. Lifebuoys
(1) There shall at least be one lifebuoy for every three persons on board.
(2) At least half of the lifebuoys shall have approved buoy lights and all the lifebuoys shall:
a)	be marked with the vessel’s name and port of registry; and

b)	be placed conspicuously and readily available, so that they can be released quickly and easily.

(3) Vessels of 10.67 to 15 metres in overall length shall have at least one lifebuoy on each side fitted with a buoyant lifeline of at least 30 metres. On vessels of less than 10.67 metres in overall length, one such buoy is sufficient.
(4) On vessels required to have two or more lifebuoys, at least one buoy shall be placed at the stern and one near the place where work with fishing gear occurs.

Section 44. Distress signal equipment and pyrotechnical equipment
(1) Vessels shall be equipped with means for making effective distress signals by day and by night. Vessels shall have at least two smoke signals. In addition, vessels shall have the following equipment:
a)	three rocket parachute flares and three red hand flares in trade area Fjord fishing;

b)	three rocket parachute flares and three red hand flares in trade area In-shore fishing;

c)	six rocket parachute flares and four red hand flares in trade area Bank fishing I;

d)	six rocket parachute flares and four red hand flares in trade area Bank fishing II.

(2) Distress signal equipment shall be type-approved, clearly marked and kept in a suitable casing in an easily accessible place. Distress signal equipment shall be replaced at the latest within the indicated use-by date or three years from date of manufacture if use-by date is not indicated.

Section 45. Alarm system, muster list and drills
(1) New vessels which are decked or open with wheelhouse, with a crew of two or more, shall have an alarm system to alert the persons on board in the event of danger. The alarm system may be connected to the fire alarm system required pursuant to section 16. The alarm shall in addition be capable of being triggered manually. The alarm shall continue to sound until it is manually turned off.
(2) On board existing vessels alerting may be done with signals from the vessel's whistle or siren.
(3) Vessels with a crew of two or more shall be equipped with clear instructions (muster list) for each member of the crew.
(4) The muster list shall be posted and made known to the persons on board, and shall include:
a)	a detailed description of the alarm system, along with the measures to be taken by the crew when the alarm is sounded and the order in which the crew shall leave the vessel;

b)	information about the location of life-saving equipment, life-saving appliances, fire-fighting equipment, pyrotechnical equipment, closing of doors, valves, hatches, etc., the meaning of the alarm signals, and the precautionary measures to be taken;

c)	which persons are assigned to ensure that the life-saving and fire appliances are maintained, in good condition and are ready for immediate use; and

d)	specification of substitutes for key personnel who may have become unfit for service, taking into account that the different emergencies may call for different actions.

(5) The master shall change the muster list or create a new muster list if there are changes in the crew making it necessary to change the muster list.
(6) Abandon ship drills and fire drills shall take place at least once every three months and when more than 1/3 of the crew has been replaced. Drills shall comply with the muster list, and the entire crew shall participate in the drills.

Section 46. Life-saving appliances not complying with the requirements of these Regulations are not permitted on board.