Regulations of 19 December 2014 No. 1853 on  
the construction and supervision of small cargo ships 
Legal basis: Laid down by the Norwegian Maritime Authority on 19 December 2014 under the Act of 16 February 2007 No. 9 relating to ship safety 
and security (Ship Safety and Security Act) section 2 third paragraph, sections 6, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 21, section 41 third paragraph, section 43 fifth 
paragraph, sections 45 and 47, cf. Formal Delegation of 16 February 2007 No. 171 and Formal Delegation of 31 May 2007 No. 590.  
EEA references: EEA Agreement Annex II chapter XIX point 1 (Directive 98/34/EC as amended by Directive 98/48/EC). 
Amendments: Amended by Regulations of 18 December 2015 No. 1769, 20 December 2017 No. 2379, 14 January 2020 (in force on 1 February 2020). 
Chapter 1 
General provisions 
Section 1 
Scope of application 
(1)  These Regulations apply to Norwegian cargo ships of 8 metres and above in overall length, but of less than 24 
metres in length (L). 
(2)  These Regulations do not apply to ships:  
a)  of less than 15 metres in overall length which shall not carry out towing operations and which: 
i.  carry maximum 1,000 kg of cargo; and 
ii.  carry out hoists where the heeling moment arm does not exceed 0.100 metres. Heeling moment arm 
means heeling moment divided by the ship's displacement (MK/displ.); 
b)  which are covered by the scope of application of Regulations on vessels of less than 24 metres carrying 
12 passengers or less, and which are engaged only in activities described therein; 
c)  of 500 gross tonnage and upwards. 
Amended by Regulation of 14 January 2020 (in force on 1 February 2020). 
Section 2 
Ships used for research and training purposes 
(1)  Ships which for research or training purposes are used for catching fish, whales, seals or other living resources in 
the sea shall comply with the requirements applicable to fishing vessels, including the requirement for vessel instructions 
for fishing vessels. 
(2)  Ships used for training related to certificates for deck officer class 5 pleasure craft may comply with the 
requirements applicable to recreational craft. 
Section 3 
Requirements for ships with building contract  
placed before 1 January 2015 and delivered before 1 January 2016 
(1)  Ships for which the building contract was placed before 1 January 2015 and which are delivered before 1 January 
2016 shall comply with the provisions of the Norwegian regulations in force at the time of construction of the ship. Later 
amendments applicable to existing ships, as laid down in regulations previously in force, and in chapter 11 of these 
Regulations, also apply. For ships without building contract, the keel shall be laid or they shall be at a similar stage of 
construction before 1 April 2015. 
(2)  The Norwegian Maritime Authority may order that the ship, wholly or partly, shall comply with requirements 
applicable to ships for which the building contract is placed on or after 1 January 2015 or which are delivered on or after 
1 January 2016, in the event of: 
a)  modifications in the use or operation; 
b)  replacement of equipment; 
c)  repairs, 
d)  conversions; 
e)  increased draught; 
or for other reasons, after a specific assessment of safety based on the general structural design, equipment, 
arrangement and condition of the ship. Section 4 
Definitions 
For the purpose of these Regulations, the following definitions shall apply: 
a)  “Anchor-handling”: work involving anchoring and mooring of floating constructions. Work involving the 
anchoring and mooring of light objects, such as a light floating wharf or similar, is not considered anchor-
handling.  
b)  “Cargo ship”: a ship which is not a passenger ship, fishing vessel, barge, recreational craft or a vessel 
considered to be a part of another ship's outfitting.  
c)  “Closed ship”: a ship with deck which can be closed weathertight from the stern to the stem uninterrupted 
by other than superstructure or deckhouse so constructed that sea water will not flood spaces below deck.  
d)  “MK”: Nordic Boat Standard: Materials and Components for Commercial Boats of less than 15 metres, 1990. 
e)  “Passenger ship”: ships required to have Passenger Certificate.  
f)  “Towing”: towing or pushing of one or more objects. The towing of light objects, such as a dinghy or a light 
floating wharf or similar, is not considered towing as per this definition.  
Section 5 
Acceptance of equivalent legislation in another EEA country 
As an alternative to chapters 2 to 7 of these Regulations, a ship may be constructed in compliance with a complete 
and equivalent body of legislation in another EEA country. The body of legislation shall be accepted as equivalent by 
the Norwegian Maritime Authority before the construction commences. The same applies when purchasing ships from 
another EEA country.  
Section 6 
Maintenance requirements 
The ship and appurtenant equipment shall be maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations or 
with recognised methods. The company shall have a plan for such maintenance.  
Chapter 2 
Construction 
Section 7 
Construction requirements 
(1)  The ship’s: 
a)  hull;  
b)  outfitting;  
c)  watertight bulkheads; and 
d)  means of closure for openings in:  
1.  bulkheads;  
2.  superstructures; and 
3.  deckhouses; 
shall be in compliance with the requirements for:  
a)  material properties; 
b)  construction; 
c)  strength; and 
d)  watertight integrity; 
in one standard or set of rules. 
(2)  The standard or set of rules mentioned in the first paragraph shall be appropriate to the ship being constructed 
with regard to construction material, size, type and use, and shall either be from a recognised classification society or 
another accepted recognised standard.  
(3)  Sections 8 to 25 apply regardless of selected standard or set of rules pursuant to this section. Section 8 
Requirements for strengthening of hull 
Areas of the hull which may be subjected to increased loads or damages shall be strengthened. Areas which cannot 
be strengthened shall have an internal watertight barrier preventing further flooding of the ship in the event of damage. 
Section 9 
Ice-strengthening requirements 
(1)  Ships operating in areas with ice shall be strengthened for ice.  
(2)  The ice-strengthening of the ship shall be done in accordance with rules from a recognised classification society.  
(3)  For ships constructed in accordance with the Nordic Boat Standard for Commercial Boats less than 15 metres, 
1990, C33 in the same standard applies. 
Section 10 
Requirements for production conditions  
for ships constructed of cast materials 
For ships constructed wholly or partly of reinforced fibre glass polyester or other cast materials, the production 
conditions shall comply with rules for production conditions from a recognised classification society, or Nordic Boat 
Standard for Commercial Boats less than 15 metres, 1990, C26 for ships constructed in accordance with this standard. 
Section 11 
Requirements for anchor and mooring equipment 
(1)  Ships shall have anchor and mooring equipment. 
(2)  The anchor and mooring equipment shall be in accordance with the rules of a recognised classification society.  
(3)  For ships of less than 15 metres the anchor and mooring equipment may be in accordance with the Nordic Boat 
Standard for Commercial boats less than 15 metres, 1990, C16. 
Section 12 
Requirements for foundations for lifting equipment  
for life-saving appliances 
The foundations of davit, crane and other lifting equipment for life-saving appliances shall be dimensioned with a 
safety factor of 4.5 against the tensile strength of the material. 
Section 13 
Requirements for towing winch or towing hook  
when towing in small coasting or lesser trade area 
(1)  Ships carrying out towing operations in small coasting or lesser trade area shall be equipped with a towing winch 
or towing hook. The towing hook shall be mounted in such a way that it can move freely in the horizontal and vertical 
sectors in which the towline can move.  
(2)  The tow shall be attached to the towing winch or towing hook. 
(3)  The towing equipment shall be so arranged as to make it possible to maintain control of the tow, even under poor 
weather conditions. The tow connection shall be protected from wear due to movement of the tow, and shall be long 
enough or be so arranged that the effect of shock loads is reduced. 
(4)  When towing in a trade area greater than protected waters, a complete spare tow connection shall be available. 
This shall be so arranged that it is readily available for use under all weather conditions. 
Section 14 
Requirements for towing equipment for smaller tows  
in trade areas 1 and 2 
(1)  Ships carrying out towing operations in trade areas 1 or 2 may as an alternative to towing winch or towing hook 
have towing mountings or other equipment suitable for towing the object in question, when the towed object is less than 
15 metres and does not carry cargo. (2)  The tow shall be capable of being quickly released at maximum bollard pull. 
(3)  Sections 16 and 17 do not apply to ships covered by the first paragraph.  
Section 15 
Requirements for stern roller, winch, guide pins,  
shark-jaw and safety zone for anchor-handling operations  
in small coasting and lesser trade area 
(1)  Ships carrying out towing operations in small coasting or lesser trade area shall have stern roller and winch. 
(2)  The ship shall have a safety zone where the crew may stay when the anchor-handling equipment is in operation. 
(3)  Ships pursuant to the first paragraph shall have guide pins that can be closed and shark-jaw appropriate to the 
vessel’s intended operations not later than 1 January 2018. 
Section 16 
Requirements for emergency release for towing or  
anchor-handling in small coasting or lesser trade area 
(1)  In ships carrying out towing or anchor-handling operations in small coasting or lesser trade area, winch, towing 
hook, guide pins and shark-jaw shall be fitted with a reliable and appropriate emergency release mechanism for releasing 
tow or load.  
(2)  Emergency release shall be possible: 
a)  without manual handling on or in the vicinity of the equipment;  
b)  from the control panel for the equipment; 
c)  from the relevant steering position for the ship; 
d)  in dead ship situations; and 
e)  at the safe working load (SWL) for the equipment in question. 
(3)  When the emergency release mechanism is activated, the tension on the line shall be gone within 10 seconds.  
Section 17 
Requirements for automatic audible alarm  
in small coasting or lesser trade area 
Ships operating in small coasting or lesser trade area with shark-jaw or guide pins that can be closed shall be fitted 
with automatic audible alarm on the working deck. The alarm shall be sounded when the equipment is set in motion. 
Section 18 
Requirements for dimensioning, etc. of equipment  
and arrangement for towing or anchor-handling  
in small coasting or lesser trade area 
(1)  The requirements of this section apply to ships operating in small coasting or lesser trade area. 
(2)  Towing hooks, guide pins, cruciform bollards, roller hawses and similar with foundation and mounting shall be 
dimensioned for the maximum continuous pull (bollard pull) of the vessel with a safety factor of at least 5 in relation to 
the tensile strength of the material or of 3.5 in relation to the minimum yield stress of the material (RₑH). For materials 
without an easily defined yield point, the 0.2 per cent proof stress (offset yield stress), i.e. the stress at which the material 
undergoes a 0.2 per cent non-proportional extension (RP0.2), shall be used instead of RₑH. The same applies to shark-
jaw with foundation and mounting, but a force corresponding to 120 per cent of the SWL of the winch shall be used 
instead of bollard pull.  
(3)  As an alternative to the requirements of the second paragraph, the mentioned equipment with foundation and 
mounting may be dimensioned in accordance with a standard or a set of rules from a recognised classification society. 
The standard or set of rules shall be appropriate to the equipment. 
(4)  For shark-jaws, the following technical requirements for materials apply: 
a)  elongation shall be minimum 12 per cent;  
b)  notched impact resistance shall be minimum 50 J on average of three single tests at room temperature, where 
no test value shall fall below 40 J;  
c)  hardness value shall be minimum 320 HV Vickers. 
(5)  Dimensioning and testing of winch for towing and winch for anchor-handling shall be in accordance with ISO 
7365. The towing line and anchor-handling line shall, when using winch, be dimensioned in accordance with point 4.5.1 
of ISO 7365. The foundation and mounting of the winch shall be dimensioned for the SWL of the winch with a safety factor of at least 5 in relation to the tensile strength of the material or of 3.6 in relation to the minimum yield stress of 
the material (RₑH). For materials without an easily defined yield point, the 0.2 per cent proof stress (offset yield stress), 
i.e. the stress at which the material undergoes a 0.2 per cent non-proportional extension (RP0.2), shall be used instead 
of RₑH.  
(6)  For towing with towing hook, all components of the towing line shall be dimensioned against breakage with a 
safety factor of at least 3 in relation to the bollard pull of the ship. 
(7)  When equipment for towing or anchor-handling may be subjected to forces in horizontal or vertical direction, 
such equipment shall at least be dimensioned for the ship's bollard pull in the least favourable directions from 0 to 60 
degrees to either side in relation to the ship's centre line and 30 degrees upwards in relation to the horizontal plane. 
(8)  All movable equipment used in connection with towing and anchor-handling operations, such as shackles, rings, 
wires and hawsers, shall be certified. 
Section 19 
Requirement for documentation to be kept on board 
Certificates for movable equipment and the documentation for the towing arrangement and anchor-handling 
arrangement shall be kept on board. 
Section 20 
Requirements for equipment and arrangement for towing  
or anchor-handling in great coasting or greater trade area 
Ships carrying out towing or anchor-handling operations in great coasting or greater trade area shall comply with the 
requirements of the Regulations of 1 July 2014 No. 1072 on the construction of ships, sections 12, 13, 14 and 16.   
Section 21 
Requirements for watertight subdivision on closed ships 
(1)  Closed ships of less than 15 metres in overall length shall have at least two watertight bulkheads. 
(2)  Closed ships of 15 metres in overall length and upwards shall have at least three watertight bulkheads, whereof 
one bulkhead shall be a collision bulkhead at a distance of at least 0.05L from the forward perpendicular. 
(3)  Collision bulkheads on closed ships having a whole superstructure or a superstructure in the fore-body which is 
longer than one-fourth of the ship's length, shall be extended weathertight to the first deck above the freeboard deck. 
Where the extension is not located directly above the collision bulkhead below, the part of the deck which forms the step 
shall be weathertight. Openings in the collision bulkhead above the freeboard deck shall be capable of being closed 
weathertight. 
Section 22 
Requirements for openings in watertight bulkheads on closed ships 
(1)  Watertight bulkheads on closed ships shall have as few openings as possible. Cable and pipe penetrations shall be 
so designed and constructed that the watertight integrity of the bulkhead is maintained. 
(2)  Doors and hatches in watertight bulkheads shall also be watertight and of equivalent strength to the unpierced 
bulkhead. Manholes shall be bolted tight. 
Section 23 
Requirements for openings in collision bulkheads on closed ships 
Collision bulkheads below the freeboard deck on closed ships shall not have openings or penetrations. When a tank 
for liquid has been arranged in front of the collision bulkhead, the collision bulkhead may have a pipe penetration in 
order to convey this liquid. This pipe shall have a valve fitted where the pipe penetrates the bulkhead. The valve shall 
be operable from above the freeboard deck. 
Section 24 
Requirements for moving parts penetrating the hull  
(1)  Ships with moving parts penetrating the hull below the deepest waterline, such as sonar, shall have an internal 
watertight barrier which prevents the further flooding of the ship in the event of a leak. The compartment that can be 
flooded shall not be greater than what is necessary to be able to carry out maintenance, repairs and similar.  (2)  Openings in the internal watertight barrier below the freeboard deck shall have watertight means of closure of the 
same strength as the adjacent structure. The means of closure shall be marked on both sides stating that it shall be kept 
closed while at sea. The compartment within the opening shall have a water level meter with an alarm to the wheelhouse 
which is activated when the water level in the compartment reaches a maximum of 0.3 m. 
Section 25 
Requirements for constructional adaptation for loading and unloading  
ILO Convention No. 152 shall apply as regulation when the Convention has constructional significance. 
Chapter 3 
Stability documentation 
Section 26 
Requirements for preparation of stability information 
(1)  Before the ship is put into service, stability information shall be prepared to enable the master by rapid and simple 
processes to obtain accurate guidance as to the ship’s trim and stability under all conditions. 
(2)  Hull geometry, hydrostatics, cross curves, limit curves and supporting documentation shall be prepared by means 
of software listed on the Norwegian Maritime Authority's list of approved stability calculation programs. 
Section 27 
Requirements for stability information to be kept on board 
(1)  A stability poster with information about the ship's limitations shall be posted in the wheelhouse. The stability 
poster shall at least include the following information, as appropriate for the ship: 
a)  type of cargo and maximum amount of cargo in cargo spaces and on decks pursuant to sections 30 to 32; 
b)  use of ballast; 
c)  limitations when using anti-rolling tank(s); and 
d)  the ship's capacities with regard to towing, anchor-handling and use of crane.  
(2)  The following stability documentation shall be kept on board: 
a)  tank plan, and tables or curves stating, as a minimum, the volume, centre of gravity and free surface effects 
at different levels for each tank;  
b)  hydrostatics; 
c)  cross curves; 
d)  limit curves; 
e)  loading conditions; 
f)  examples of the preparation of other loading conditions and control against permitted limit curves. 
Section 28 
Requirements for determination of lightship data  
(1)  The ship shall be subjected to an inclining test when construction and equipping is completed. The actual 
displacement and position of the centre of gravity for the lightship condition shall be determined before the ship is put 
into service.  
(2)  When several ships are constructed in a series with identical main dimensions, identical structure and hull design, 
and with equal weight and placement of equipment, the first two ships in the series shall be subjected to an inclining 
test. For the next ships in the series, the inclining test may be omitted if it can be documented, by calculation or weighing, 
that the deviation of the lightship weight is less than 2 per cent, and that the deviation of the longitudinal centre of gravity 
is less than 1 per cent of the overall length.  
(3)  Within ten years after the last approved lightship data, a displacement measurement shall be made. A new 
inclining test shall be performed whenever a deviation in the lightship weight exceeding 2 per cent of the ship’s weight, 
or a deviation of the longitudinal centre of gravity exceeding 1 per cent of overall length, is found or anticipated.  
(4)  Where alterations are made to a ship affecting its lightship condition or the position of the centre of gravity, an 
approved company or the Norwegian Maritime Authority shall consider whether the ship shall be re-inclined or whether 
previously determined lightship data can be accepted with corrections for the alterations made. Revised stability 
calculations shall be prepared based on new lightship data following alterations.  
(5)  Inclining tests and displacement measurements shall be performed according to procedures laid down by the 
Norwegian Maritime Authority. Section 29 
Requirements for determination of bollard pull 
For ships carrying out towing or anchor-handling operations, the maximum continuous pull (bollard pull) shall be 
determined by way of a towing test in accordance with procedures laid down by the Norwegian Maritime Authority. 
Section 30 
Requirements for preparation of loading conditions  
(1)  Loading conditions which cover all operations of the ship shall be calculated, including the following loading 
conditions and any less favourable cargo distributions, if they are relevant with regard to the operation of the ship:  
a)  ship fully equipped without cargo;  
b)  ship fully equipped with cargo holds fully loaded and the cargo is homogeneously distributed in all holds, 
including hatches;  
c)  ship fully equipped with maximum deck cargo and any cargo below deck homogeneously distributed;  
d)  ship fully equipped with maximum deck cargo. 
(2)  For the loading conditions described in the first paragraph subparagraphs c and d, the stowage weight of the deck 
cargo and the length, breadth, height and centre of gravity of the deck cargo shall be given in the calculations. 
(3)  The loading conditions described in the first paragraph subparagraphs a to c shall be calculated for the ship with 
100 per cent stores and 100 per cent fuel, and with 10 per cent stores and 10 per cent fuel. 
(4)  In the loading conditions described in the first paragraph subparagraphs b and c the ship shall be loaded to the 
deepest waterline.  
(5)  For ships with openings or ventilators for free flooding or circulation in wells, loading conditions as described in 
subparagraphs a to f below shall be calculated instead of the loading conditions of the first paragraph subparagraphs a 
to d:  
a)  ship fully equipped, with 100 per cent stores and 100 per cent fuel, empty well and without cargo in cargo 
holds, if any; 
b)  as for subparagraph a, but with 10 per cent stores and 10 per cent fuel; 
c)  ship fully loaded, with 100 per cent stores and 100 per cent fuel, full equipment, flooded well and the amount 
of water ballast necessary to obtain immersion in accordance with the freeboard; 
d)  as for subparagraph c, but with empty water ballast tanks; 
e)  ship fully loaded, with 10 per cent stores and 10 per cent fuel; 
f)  ship with cargo well partly loaded, indicating the least favourable stability situation that will occur with 
regard to free surfaces, cargo distribution, etc.  
(6)  If a ship pursuant to the fifth paragraph is constructed so that the water level inside the well can be increased in 
relation to the water level outside, stability calculations shall be prepared showing that the requirements for stability 
have been complied with in such loading conditions. The water level inside the well shall not be below the water level 
outside in any loading conditions. 
(7)  When ships carry liquid cargo, and the specific weight of the cargo in the homogeneous conditions is less than for 
sea water, fully loaded conditions with specific weight as for sea water shall in addition be calculated taking into account 
the free surface effects. 
(8)  For ships equipped with one or more anti-rolling tank(s), the stability calculations shall take due account of the 
reduction in stability caused by the use of such tank(s). If the anti-rolling tank(s) for stability reasons cannot be used for 
all loading conditions, instructions for the use of the tank(s) shall be prepared, as well as loading conditions 
corresponding to the instructions. 
(9)  If the amount of water ballast is different in the departure condition and the arrival condition, intermediate 
conditions shall be calculated indicating when water ballast shall be replenished or drained. The calculations shall 
indicate the stability situation immediately prior to replenishing or after drainage of water ballast. 
(10) If, in one particular condition, there is a need to use water ballast or a particular distribution of stores in order to 
achieve a particular capacity, the stability manual shall give clear instructions on the necessary quantity and placement. 
Section 31 
Requirements for preparation of additional conditions for ships  
carrying out towing, crane or anchor-handling operations 
(1)  When ships carrying out towing operations do not comply with the towing criteria of section 38 when the ship is 
loaded in accordance with section 30 first paragraph subparagraphs a to d, corrected loading conditions shall be 
calculated, showing the limitations of the loading capacity during towing operations.  
(2)  For ships carrying out crane operations, the maximum permitted heeling moment from crane when the ship is 
loaded as described in section 30 first paragraph subparagraphs a to d shall be calculated. The calculations shall be based 
on the criteria of section 39. Information regarding maximum permitted weight shall be calculated as a function of 
extension and direction of the crane boom. The Safe Working Load (SWL) of the crane shall in no case be exceeded.  (3)  Ships carrying out anchor-handling operations shall calculate a loading condition where the ship is fully equipped 
and loaded in the least favourable condition under which the ship can carry out anchor-handling operations. The stability 
criteria of section 39 shall be met when the maximum pulling force of the winch is placed as a weight in the stern. The 
weight shall be placed in the outermost point bounding the area of movement of the anchor-handling line. If limitations 
of the loading capacity or similar are assumed, this shall be clearly stated in the instructions for the master in the stability 
manual. 
Section 32 
Requirements for preparation of additional conditions for ships 
operating in areas where there is a danger of ice accretion  
(1)  When the ship is operating in areas where there is a danger of ice accretion: 
a)  loading conditions with the weight of ice added shall be prepared; 
b)  the ship shall be capable of satisfying the stability requirements in all loading conditions, with the weight of 
ice added; and 
c)  the weight of ice shall not cause submersion of the deepest waterline. 
(2)  The weight of ice shall be assumed to be at least 30 kg/m2 for exposed weather decks, gangways and front 
bulkheads of superstructures and deckhouses, and at least 7.5 kg/m2 for projected lateral planes on both sides of the ship 
above the waterline. The weight of ice on non-continuous surfaces such as railings, rigging, spars (except masts) and 
equipment shall be included by increasing the total area of the projected lateral plane of the ship’s sides by 5 per cent. 
The static moment of this area shall be increased by 10 per cent.  
Section 33 
Preconditions to apply when calculating loading conditions 
For the calculation of the loading conditions described in sections 30 to 32, the following shall apply: 
a)  In the fully loaded conditions, the cargo shall be assumed to be homogeneously distributed among all holds, 
hatch coamings and trunks, if any.  
b)  When calculating the free surface effects in tanks for consumable liquids it shall be assumed that, for each 
type of liquid, at least one pair of transverse side tanks or at least one centre tank has a free surface. The 
tank(s) that shall be assumed to have free liquid surface shall be the tank(s) where the free surface effects 
are the largest. The maximum free surface effects that the tank(s) can have between associated departure 
condition and arrival condition shall be used as basis. 
c)  For  vessels  with  cargo  wells  arranged  with  free  flooding  of  the  well,  in  other  words  with  direct 
communication to the sea, the following shall in addition apply: 
1.  The loading conditions shall be calculated with correction for free surface effects in the cargo well. 
Cargo holds shall be included in the stability calculations as an integrated part of the hull, and 
documented in the specifications for the other parts of the hull. The specific weight of the cargo shall 
be set at 1.025 tonnes/m3 for such calculations.  
2.  When the ship is fully fuelled and fully equipped, the draught shall not exceed the draught 
corresponding to the assigned freeboard. The water level inside the well shall then be regarded as equal 
to the water level outside.  
Section 34 
Requirements for calculation of stability curves 
(1)  Hydrostatic curves shall be laid out, containing the hydrostatic parameters necessary for the calculation of the 
stability. 
(2)  The cross curves shall be calculated for a sufficient number of angles of heel, depending on the shape and size of 
the ship. 
(3)  In the calculation of cross curves the ship shall be capable of trimming freely during heeling. 
(4)  Hydrostatic curves, cross curves and KG limit curves shall be calculated for the ship without trim, for maximum 
trim and for intermediate trim values. The curves shall be calculated for a total of at least three trim values. 
(5)  Superstructures, deckhouses, trunks, etc. may be included in the buoyancy, provided that the openings in such 
volumes are fitted with means of closure in accordance with these Regulations. 
(6)  When the ship will sink due to flooding through an opening, the GZ curve shall be terminated at the angle of 
flooding in question, and the ship shall be considered to have lost all stability. 
(7)  The KG limit curves, or equivalent tables, shall show the maximum permissible height of the ship’s centre of 
gravity for intact stability at various draughts and trim values. The KG limit curves shall be based on the stability criteria 
applicable for the ship. KG limit curves shall be drawn up for trim values corresponding to those for which hydrostatics 
and cross curves have been calculated. (8)  Ships carrying out towing or anchor-handling operations shall also have limit curves showing KG  during such 
max
operations. 
Chapter 4  
Stability criteria 
Section 35 
Stability requirements 
(1)  All ships shall have sufficient stability and satisfactory trim in all relevant loading conditions. Any list shall be 
avoided. 
(2)  Ballast shall be located and secured so that it cannot shift. Permanent ballast shall not be removed or moved.  
(3)  Where liquid ballast is to be used as permanent ballast, it shall be stored in sealed tanks which are completely full. 
Detailed information thereof shall be included in the stability manual. 
Section 36 
Requirements for intact stability for closed ships 
(1)  For closed ships, the following stability criteria shall be satisfied for all loading conditions, unless otherwise 
provided by sections 38 to 40:  
a)  The area below the righting arm curve (GZ curve) shall be at least 0.055 metre radians calculated up to an 
angle of heel of 30 degrees, and at least 0.09 metre radians calculated up to 40 degrees or the angle of 
flooding if that angle is less than 40 degrees. In addition, the area below the GZ curve between the heeling 
angles of 30 and 40 degrees, or between 30 degrees and the angle of flooding if that angle is less than 40 
degrees, shall be at least 0.03 metre radians.  
b)  The righting arm (GZ) shall be at least 0.20 metres at an angle of heel of 30 degrees or more.  
c)  The angle of heel at which the righting arm (GZ ) is at its maximum value shall not be less than 25 degrees.  
max
d)  The initial metacentric height (GM) shall be at least 0.15 metres.  
(2)  When the ship because of its shape fails to comply with the first paragraph subparagraph c, the first paragraph 
subparagraphs a and c may be replaced by the following: 
a)  The area below the GZ curve shall be at least 0.07 metre radians calculated to an angle of heel of 15 degrees 
when the maximum righting arm (GZ ) occurs at 15 degrees, and 0.055 metre radians up to 30 degrees 
max
when GZ  occurs at 30 degrees or more. When GZ  occurs between 15 and 30 degrees, the area 
max max
requirement below the GZ curve up to the angle where GZ  occurs shall be determined by this formula: 
max
Minimum area = 0.055 + 0.001 (30 degrees – θ ), 
max
where θ  is the angle where GZ  occurs. In addition the area below the GZ curve between 30 and 40 
max max
degrees, or between 30 degrees and the angle of flooding if the latter is less than 40 degrees, shall be not less 
than 0.03 metre radians. 
b)  The angle of heel where GZ  occurs shall not be less than 15 degrees.  
max
Section 37 
Requirements for intact stability for open ships  
Open ships shall comply with the Nordic Boat Standard for Commercial Boats less than 15 metres, 1990, C3 point 
4, but with a requirement for minimum GM equal to 0.50 metres. 
Section 38 
Additional stability requirements  
for ship carrying out towing operations  
(1)  Ships carrying out towing operations shall be closed ships.  
(2)  When a ship carrying out towing operations is exposed to a transverse force giving the ship a transverse speed 
through the water of 5 knots, the first intersection between the heeling arm curve and the righting arm curve (GZ curve) 
shall occur at an angle which is less than the angle of flooding.  
(3)  When a ship carrying out towing operations is exposed to a transverse force equal to the ship’s bollard pull 
multiplied by 0.65, the area between the righting arm curve (GZ curve) and the heeling arm curve calculated from the 
first point of intersection to the angle which occurs first of 40°, the angle of GZ  and the angle of flooding, shall be 
max
equal to or greater than 0.010 metre radians. The vertical arm of the heeling moment shall be taken from the centre of 
the propeller(s) to the fastening point of the hawser.  Section 39 
Additional stability requirements when using crane  
and in connection with anchor-handling operations 
(1)  Ships which shall use deck crane, and ships which shall carry out anchor-handling operations, shall be closed 
ships.  
(2)  The maximum angle of heel due to heeling moment from the crane shall be 7 degrees, or the angle resulting in 
parts of the freeboard deck being located 200 mm from the waterline, if this angle is smaller. The area between the 
righting arm curve (GZ curve) and the heeling arm curve calculated from the first point of intersection to the angle which 
occurs first of 40° and the angle of flooding, shall be equal to or greater than 0.090 metre radians.  
(3)  The maximum angle of heel may be between 7 and 10 degrees if the following conditions are satisfied when the 
crane or winch is operating at maximum loading moment: 
a)  The righting arm curve (GZ curve) has a positive extent of at least 20 degrees beyond the state of equilibrium. 
Flooding shall be assumed to take place through openings which do not have weathertight closing appliances. 
b)  The area requirement of the second paragraph is satisfied. 
c)  No parts of the freeboard deck are located less than 200 mm from the waterline. 
(4)  Information from the manufacturer shall be available concerning the maximum angle of heel for which the cargo-
handling appliance is intended. The maximum permitted angle of heel of the second and third paragraphs shall not exceed 
the maximum angle of heel from the manufacturer. 
(5)  If, when lifting by crane, counter ballasting is used in order to counterbalance heeling moment due to weight in 
the crane, the consequence of loss of crane load shall be considered. 
Section 40 
Alternative stability requirements for vessels with cargo wells 
Loading conditions for partly flooded wells may have a GZ  of at least 0.10 m and a positive GZ curve up to at 
max
least 20 degrees, provided that the flooding and discharging of the well takes place only in calm seas, and that the cargo 
well is either completely empty or completely flooded when the vessel is at sea. 
Chapter 5 
Freeboard 
Section 41 
Freeboard requirements for closed ships 
The freeboard shall be determined based on stability, trim and hull strength, etc., but shall in no place or in no loading 
condition be less than 200 mm from the upper edge of the deck at side to the waterline. 
Section 42 
Requirements for indication of draught marks for closed ships 
(1)  For ships of 15 metres and above in overall length, the draught marks and deck line shall be indicated on both 
sides of the ship in accordance with the marking form laid down by the Norwegian Maritime Authority. 
(2)  For ships of less than 15 metres in overall length, the draught marks shall be indicated on both sides of the ship in 
accordance with the Nordic Boat Standard for Commercial boats less than 15 metres, 1990, C2.  
Section 43 
Freeboard requirements for open ships 
(1)  The freeboard shall be determined based on stability, trim and hull strength, etc., but shall amidships not be less 
than the greatest of: 
a)  F= (4.5 x Δ) / (1000 x overall length x breadth) m 
b)  F= 0.5 m 
(2)  The forward freeboard shall not be less than 1.2F. The aft freeboard shall not be less than 0.8F. Chapter 6  
Machinery and electrical installations 
Section 44 
Machinery requirements 
(1)  Ships shall have machinery, generators, steering gear, pumps, piping systems, etc. in compliance with the Nordic 
Boat Standard for Commercial boats less than 15 metres, 1990, C6 to C10. 
(2)  The following equipment shall be type-approved by and in accordance with rules from a recognised classification 
society: 
a)  propulsion and auxiliary machinery, gears, etc. with a 100 kW rating and above, on ships of 15 metres in 
overall length and upwards;  
b)  steering gear installations with appurtenant control systems on ships of 15 metres in overall length and 
upwards; 
c)  boiler installations and pressure vessels with a working pressure of 3.5 bar or more; 
d)  flexible pipes and hoses conveying flammable liquids. 
(3) Couplings on oil fuel lines shall be screened to avoid oil spray onto hot surfaces or other sources of ignition. Such 
piping systems shall have as few couplings as possible. Flexible hoses may only be used wherever necessary in order to 
absorb movement between machinery and fixed piping system. 
(4)  Oil tanks in machinery spaces shall, as far as practicable, have drip trays with sufficient capacity for the collection 
of leakages from couplings. This also applies to the parts of the oil fuel system which are often opened for cleaning 
purposes. 
(5)  Air pipes from oil fuel tanks shall be led to open deck.  
Section 45 
Requirement for means of communication  
in the event of emergency steering 
Communication between the bridge and the emergency steering position shall be possible. 
Section 46 
Requirements for main source of power  
Where the auxiliary services essential for the safety and propulsion of the ship are dependent on electrical power, the 
ship shall have two or more main generating sets. One of the main generating sets may be operated by the main engine 
for propulsion. 
Section 47 
Requirements for emergency source of electrical power  
(1)  An emergency source of electrical power with emergency switchboard shall be provided. The emergency source 
of power with emergency switchboard shall be located above the bulkhead in a space not contiguous to the boundaries 
of machinery spaces, or those spaces containing the main source of electrical power or main switchboard. Machinery 
spaces means spaces containing internal combustion machinery used for propulsion, internal combustion machinery with 
a total power output of not less than 375 kW, oil-fired boilers or other oil-fired equipment such as gas generators, 
incinerators, etc. 
(2)  There shall be a clear division between the main and emergency source of power so that fire or other casualty or 
malfunction in one installation does not affect the other.  
(3)  The emergency source of electrical power shall be an accumulator battery or a generator that complies with the 
requirements of section 48. The accumulator battery shall be capable of carrying the load pursuant to the requirements 
of section 48 without recharging, with a reduction in the voltage of the battery limited to 12 per cent of its nominal 
voltage. Where the emergency source of electrical power is a generator, the generator shall be provided with a separate 
fuelling system.   
(4)  The emergency source of electrical power shall be automatically connected in the event of loss of the main source 
of electrical power. It shall be so arranged that it will operate efficiently even if the ship is listed to 22.5 degrees and the 
trim of the ship is up to 10 degrees from an even keel.  
(5)  The emergency switchboard shall be situated as close to the emergency source of electrical power as possible. 
(6)  It shall be possible to restore propulsion to the ship from a dead ship condition within 30 minutes after a blackout.  
(7)  The requirement for an emergency source of electrical power pursuant to the first paragraph shall be considered 
to have been satisfied if: a)  the main source of power is located in two or more rooms which are not adjacent, and every room: 
1.  has its own complete system, including power distribution and control systems; and 
2.  is completely independent of each other, so that a fire or other accidents in any of the rooms will not 
affect the power distribution from the others or to services listed in section 48;  
b)  an emergency source of electrical power is installed above the bulkhead deck, which at least has the capacity 
of supplying the services listed in section 48 first paragraph subparagraph a No. 1 and 2 and subparagraph 
b.  
Section 48 
Requirements for the capacity of the emergency source of power  
(1) The emergency source of electrical power shall be capable of operating the following services for three hours: 
a)  emergency lighting: 
1.  at every muster or embarkation station and over the sides;  
2.  in all alleyways, stairways and exits giving access to the muster or embarkation stations;  
3.  in the machinery spaces and at the source of emergency power;  
4.  in the spaces where radio and main navigating equipment are situated; and 
5.  at the fire pump and at the starting position of the fire pump's motor; 
b)  navigation lights; 
c)  internal means of communication necessary in an emergency situation;  
d)  the fire detection system, the fire alarm system and the general alarm system; 
e)  the ship’s sprinkler pump, if any and if it is electrically operated; and 
f)  the ship’s daylight signalling lamp, if it is operated by the ship’s main source of electrical power. 
(2)  On ships of 15 metres in overall length and upwards the emergency source of electrical power shall in addition 
have sufficient capacity to supply the fire pump for 30 minutes. This does not apply if the fire pump can be operated for 
30 minutes by another source of power which is located outside of the machinery space, and which is independent of 
both the main and emergency sources of power. 
Section 49 
Requirements for transitional source of power for emergency generator 
(1)  Where a generator is used as emergency source of power, a transitional source of electrical power shall be 
provided. The transitional source of electrical power shall consist of one or more accumulator batteries, and shall be 
capable of supplying electrical power for 30 minutes without recharging to:  
a)  emergency lighting as laid down in section 48 first paragraph subparagraph a; and 
b)  the fire detection system, the fire alarm system and the general alarm system. 
(2)  If the emergency generator has automatic start and is capable of supplying services as mentioned in the first 
paragraph within 45 seconds of loss of main power, the requirement for transitional source of power is considered to 
have been satisfied. 
Section 50 
Requirements for power supply to the general  
alarm system and public address system  
The general alarm system and the public address system (PA system) shall be supplied with electrical power both from 
the ship's main source of power and from an emergency source of power. 
Chapter 7  
Fire protection 
Section 51 
Definitions 
For the purpose of these Regulations, the following definitions shall apply: 
a)  “Fire load (MJ)”: the sum of thermal energies which are released by combustion of all fixed and mobile 
combustible materials in a space, i.e. the sum of the permanent and variable fire loads. The calculated fire 
load must include all combustible content in the building and the relevant parts of the construction, including 
linings and accommodation. b)  “Fire-restricting material”: a material satisfying the requirements for fire-restricting material of the FTP 
Code. 
c)  “FSS Code”: the International Code for Fire Safety Systems (Fire Safety Systems Code), as adopted by the 
Maritime Safety Committee by resolution MSC.98(73), as last amended by MSC.339(91). 
d)  “FTP Code”: the International Code for Application of Fire Test Procedures, 2010 (Fire Test Procedures 
Code), as adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee by resolution MSC.307(88). 
e)  “HSC Code”: the International Code of Safety for High-Speed Craft (High-Speed Craft Code), as adopted 
by the Maritime Safety Committee by resolution MSC.97(73), as last amended by MSC.352(92). 
f)  “Low flame-spread”: that the surface thus described will adequately restrict the spread of flame, this being 
determined in accordance with the FTP Code. 
g)  “‘A’ class divisions”: those divisions formed by bulkheads and decks which comply with the following 
criteria:  
1.  they are constructed of steel or other equivalent material;  
2.  they are suitably stiffened;  
3.  they are insulated with approved non-combustible materials such that the average temperature of the 
unexposed side will not rise more than 140 degrees C above the original temperature, nor will the 
temperature, at any one point, including any joint, rise more than 180 degrees C above the original 
temperature, within the time listed below:  
class ‘A-60’:  60 min  
class ‘A-30’:  30 min  
class ‘A-15’:  15 min  
class ‘A-0’:    0 min  
4.  they are so constructed as to be capable of preventing the passage of smoke and flame through the 
division to the end of the one-hour standard fire test described in the FTP Code.  
h)  “‘B’ class divisions”: those divisions formed by bulkheads, decks, ceilings or linings which comply with the 
following criteria:  
1.  they are constructed of approved, non-combustible materials, and all materials entering into the 
construction and erection of ‘B’ class divisions shall be non-combustible;  
2.  they have an insulation value such that the average temperature of the unexposed side will not rise 
more than 140 degrees C above the original temperature, nor will the temperature at any one point, 
including any joint, rise more than 225 degrees C above the original temperature, within the time listed 
below:  
class ‘B-15’   15 min  
class ‘B-0’  0 min  
3.  they are so constructed as to be capable of preventing the passage of flame through the division to the 
end of the one-hour standard fire test described in the FTP Code. 
i)  “Fire load density (MJ/m2)”: the total fire load per area unit in a fire cell. The area unit can be the enveloping 
surface (the sum of the floor, ceiling and wall surfaces) or the floor surface. The area unit to use depends on 
the applied method or standard.  
j)  “Steel or other equivalent material”: any non-combustible material which, by itself or due to insulation 
provided, has structural and integrity properties equivalent to steel at the end of the applicable exposure to 
the standard fire test (e.g. aluminium alloy with appropriate insulation). 
k)  “Non-combustible material”: a material which neither burns nor gives off flammable vapours in sufficient 
quantity for self-ignition when heated to approximately 750 degrees C, this being determined in accordance 
with the FTP Code. 
Section 52 
Requirements for insulating materials and  
materials used in accommodation spaces 
(1)  Insulating materials shall, except in cargo spaces and refrigerated compartments, be non-combustible.  
(2)  Insulation in the vicinity of engines and oil fuel lines, and on all surfaces with a temperature of 220 degrees C or 
more, shall be protected against absorbing flammable liquid or gas. 
(3)  The following shall apply in accommodation spaces, service spaces and control stations: 
a)  sheeting, ceilings, smoke barriers and associated fixings shall be of non-combustible material; and 
b)  interior surfaces shall have low flame-spread characteristics, and shall not produce smoke at elevated 
temperatures or give off substances which may be toxic or give rise to a risk of explosion. 
(4)  Ships of less than 15 metres constructed of a composite material or aluminium may, as an alternative to non-
combustible material provided in the first paragraph and the third paragraph subparagraph a, use fire-restricting material. Section 53 
Possibility of restricted use of combustible materials 
(1)  The interior sheeting, ceilings and associated fixings in accommodation spaces and service spaces may be of 
combustible material if these spaces are enclosed by non-combustible bulkheads and decks satisfying the requirements 
of section 52 third paragraph subparagraph b, and the amount of combustible material in the surfaces has a fire load 
density of maximum 45 MJ/m2 in a fire cell. The total volume of combustible material shall furthermore not exceed a 
volume equivalent to 2.5 mm sheeting on the surfaces of the space. 
(2)  The first paragraph does not apply to ships of less than 15 metres in overall length not satisfying the requirements 
of section 54. 
Section 54 
Requirements for fire-resisting divisions 
(1)  Fire-resisting divisions shall be provided in bulkheads and decks as described in table 1. 
(2)  In machinery spaces of ships constructed of composite material or aluminium, the ship's sides shall also be fitted 
with thermal boundaries up to 300 mm below the minimum draught. 
(3)  Where there is doubt as to the classification of a space, or where it is possible to assign two or more classifications 
to a space, it shall be treated as a space within the relevant category having the most stringent division. 
Table 1 
Space category    (1)  (2)  (3)  (4)  (5)  (6) 
Control stations   (1)  *  B-15b  B-15  A-15  B-15  A-15 
Accommodation  (2)    *  B-15  A-15  B-15  B-15 
spaces 
Service spaces   (3)      B-15a  A-15  B-15   B-15 
Machinery spaces  (4)        *  A-15  B-15 
Galley   (5)          *  B-15 
Cargo spaces  (6)            B-15 
a  A bulkhead or deck of the rating shown in the table is only required when the adjacent spaces are used for a different purpose. If the spaces are 
used for the same purpose, the division shall be of non-combustible material. 
b  Public spaces, mess rooms, offices and lavatories on ships of less than 15 metres may be arranged in connection with wheelhouse without 
requirement for fire-resisting division. 
*   The division shall be of non-combustible material.  
(4)  For the purpose of the table, the following definitions shall apply: 
a)  “Control stations (1)”: navigation bridge, control room for propulsion machinery when located outside the 
machinery space, and spaces containing sources of emergency power, radio equipment, fire-extinguishing 
medium for gas-based fire-extinguishing systems and fire alarm centres. 
b)  “Accommodation spaces (2)”: spaces used as public spaces, corridors, stairways, lavatories and bathrooms, 
cabins, offices, hospitals, recreation rooms and pantries containing no cooking appliances.  
c)  “Service spaces (3)”: paint lockers and store-rooms having a floor area of 4 m2 or more, spaces for the 
storage of flammable liquids, saunas and workshops other than those forming part of the machinery spaces.  
d)  “Machinery spaces (4)”: spaces containing internal combustion machinery used for propulsion, internal 
combustion machinery with a total power output of not less than 375 kW, and spaces with oil-fired boilers 
or other oil-fired equipment such as gas generators, incinerators, etc. 
e)  “Galley (5)”: spaces, with the exception of pantries, containing electrical cooking plates, stove, deep fryer, 
gas stove, gas-fired installations without open flame and similar kitchen appliances. “Pantry” means an area 
in connection with wheelhouse or mess room which contains electrical cooking plates, stove or similar 
kitchen appliances with a total effect of 5 kW or less. 
f)  “Cargo spaces (6)”: all spaces used for the storage of cargo, including tanks for the carriage of oil, and 
trunks and hatch coamings to such spaces. 
(5)  Ships of less than 15 metres in overall length may, as an alternative to the requirements of the first to fourth 
paragraphs, comply with the Nordic Boat Standard for Commercial boats less than 15 metres, 1990, C14 point 3.3., the 
requirements of a standard or set of rules from a recognised classification society or another accepted recognised 
standard. Section 55 
Alternative requirements for ships  
constructed of composite material or aluminium 
Ships constructed of composite material or aluminium may, as an alternative to sections 52 to 54, section 56 first 
paragraph and section 57 first and fifth paragraphs comply with the HSC Code chapters 7.2, 7.3 and 7.4.1 to 7.4.3. The 
requirement for protection time given in the HSC Code need not exceed 30 minutes. 
Section 56 
Requirements for arrangement of fire insulation 
(1)  Fire insulation shall be carried at a distance of at least 450 mm past the intersection and terminal points for struts, 
bulkheads and decks and in the penetrations of bulkheads and decks. Where there are different class standard 
requirements for the fire insulation in accordance with the table in section 54, the insulation with the highest class 
standard shall be carried at a distance of 450 mm past the relevant area. 
(2)  All surfaces with a temperature of 220 degrees C or more, which may come into contact with flammable liquids 
as a result of system failure, shall be adequately insulated. 
Section 57 
Requirements for openings in and penetrations of bulkheads and decks 
(1)  Doors, hatches and other openings in bulkheads and decks shall have the same fire integrity as the bulkhead or 
deck in which they are located. Watertight doors need not be insulated.  
(2)  Ventilation openings may be placed in the lower portion of doors or under doors in accommodation leading to 
corridors, except stairway enclosures. The total area of any such openings shall not exceed 0.05 m2. 
(3)  Doors between an accommodation space and a machinery space shall be self-closing and gas-tight. No direct 
access between a control station or cabin and a machinery space shall be permitted. 
(4)  If self-closing doors are fitted with hold-back mechanisms, these shall be capable of remote release from the 
navigation bridge. 
(5)  Penetrations for the passage of pipes, cables, trunks, beams and similar shall not reduce the fire integrity of the 
bulkhead or deck. 
Section 58 
Requirements for stairway enclosures 
(1)  Stairway enclosures which penetrate only a single deck shall have at least ‘B-0’ class divisions against adjacent 
spaces on one of the decks, and a self-closing door. 
(2)  Stairway enclosures which penetrate more than a single deck shall have at least ‘B-0’ class divisions against 
adjacent spaces on all decks. All doors to these spaces shall be self-closing. 
Section 59 
Requirements for means of escape  
(1)  Stairways, ladders or corridors, or combinations thereof, which provide safe escape to open deck, muster stations 
and life-saving appliances, shall be provided. The means of escape shall be clear of obstacles. 
(2)  In accommodation spaces, service spaces and control stations, at least two separate means of escape shall be 
provided from each space or group of spaces on each deck. 
(3)  On ships with superstructure where only one door may be arranged, a window may be used as one of the means 
of escape. Ships having only wheelhouse may have one means of escape therefrom. 
(4)  All machinery spaces shall have at least two separate means of escape, except in the cases described below where 
one means of escape is permitted:  
a)  the machinery space is so small that two separate means of escape is not practicable; 
b)  the machinery space has an exit giving direct access to the open deck. 
(5)  No dead-end corridors shall be of a length of more than 7 m.  
(6)  Doors and hatches in escape routes shall open in-way of the direction of escape. Cabin doors and doors to smaller 
spaces may as an alternative be fitted with a kick plate. The kick plate shall not be less than 400 mm × 500 mm. Doors 
and hatches in escape routes shall be operable from both sides in a simple manner. 
(7)  Means of escape shall have a clear width of at least 700 mm. For hatches, these dimensions shall apply to both 
the length and width of the hatch. Corridors and other alleyways shall have guard rails or grab rails or have other means 
to ensure safe passage. Section 60 
Requirements for ventilation system  
(1)  Ventilation openings to machinery spaces, cargo spaces and accommodation spaces shall have means of closure 
of non-combustible material. These openings, and appurtenant ventilation fans, shall be capable of being closed and 
stopped from outside the space. 
(2)  Ventilation ducts shall be of non-combustible material.  
(3)  The requirement for wheel-marking does not apply to penetrations where steel sleeves are directly attached to the 
ventilation duct. 
(4)  In galleys and pantries a separate extract to the open air shall be provided. 
Section 61 
Requirements for arrangement of ventilation ducts 
(1)  Ventilation systems to machinery spaces and galleys shall be separated from other ventilation systems.  
(2)  Ventilation ducts to galleys or machinery spaces which pass through accommodation spaces, service spaces or 
control stations, and ventilation ducts to accommodation spaces, service spaces or control stations which pass through 
galleys or machinery spaces shall:  
a)  be fitted with automatic fire dampers at the penetration and be insulated so that the fire integrity of machinery 
spaces or galley is maintained at a distance of at least 5 metres from the damper; or  
b)  be insulated so that the fire integrity of machinery spaces or galley is maintained throughout the entire length 
of the ventilation duct. 
Section 62 
Requirements for materials in piping systems 
(1)  Pipes conveying oil and other pipelines required for the safety of the ship shall be made of non-combustible 
material. 
(2)  Seawater pipes and bilge pipes shall be made of a material which is resistant to fire. 
(3)  Short, flexible pipe connections may be used on pipes conveying oil, if necessitated by vibrations. Such pipe 
connections shall be resistant to oil, reinforced and made of a material which is resistant to fire. 
(4)  Where failure of the material due to fire may lead to flooding, scuppers, sanitary discharges or other outlets which 
are close to the waterline shall be made of materials which are resistant to fire. 
Section 63 
Requirements for oil fuel tanks and piping systems 
(1)  Lines from storage, settling or service tanks which are arranged above a double bottom shall have a valve fitted 
on the tank. The valve shall be capable of being closed from outside the space where the tank is located. 
(2)  Deep tanks adjacent to shaft or pipe tunnel shall have a valve fitted on the tank. Pipelines outside the pipe tunnel 
shall have an additional valve. 
(3)  Oil fuel lines and other lines conveying liquids which may afford a fire risk in the event of a line failure, shall be 
placed as far away as possible from hot surfaces. 
(4)  Pumps of lines covered by the third paragraph shall be capable of being stopped from a position outside the space 
in which they are located. 
Section 64 
Requirements for heating installations 
(1)  Heating elements shall be arranged and fixed so that the risk of fire is minimal. The arrangement and placement 
of the sources of heat shall be such that materials nearby are not charred or catch fire.  
(2)  Heating by means of open flame shall not permitted in accommodation spaces. 
Section 65 
Requirements for storage of combustible substances 
(1)  Combustible substances not carried as cargo, but intended for use on board the ship, shall be stored in a separate 
store-room which: 
a)  has direct access from the open deck; 
b)  is ventilated in such a way that gases do not accumulate in the space; 
c)  has only the necessary electrical equipment; and d)  does not contain sources of heat. 
(2)  One of the following fixed fire-extinguishing systems shall be installed in spaces for the storage of combustible 
substances: 
a)  CO system providing a minimum volume of free gas equal to 40 per cent of the gross volume of the space; 
b)  dry powder system with 0.5 kg powder per m3 gross volume of the space; 
c)  water-based sprinkler system supplying 5 l/m2 per minute, which may be connected to the fire main. 
(3) Where the store-room has a deck area of less than 4 m2, a CO portable fire extinguisher providing a minimum 
volume of free gas equal to 40 per cent of the gross volume of the space may be used in lieu of a fixed fire-extinguishing 
system. In this case, a hatch shall be arranged so that the extinguisher may be used without persons having to enter the 
space.  
(4)  Cylinders, valves, regulators and pipes shall be protected against damage, large fluctuations of temperature and 
frost. 
Section 66 
Requirements for fire detection and fire alarm systems 
(1)  Ships shall have a fire detection and fire alarm system.  
(2)  The type, number and location of detectors shall be adapted to the conditions in the area to be monitored. 
(3)  A fire detection and fire alarm system with a sufficient number of fire detectors in relation to the size of the space 
shall be installed in machinery spaces and in cargo spaces with flammable or explosive cargo. Nevertheless, at least one 
smoke detector and one heat detector shall be installed. 
(4)  Where five or more detectors are installed in the machinery space or more than ten detectors are installed in the 
accommodation, the detectors shall be distributed in one loop serving the machinery space and another serving the 
accommodation.  
(5)  Manually operated call points shall be provided at exits of means of escape and otherwise on the ship in sufficient 
number. 
(6)  Audible alarm instruments shall be fitted in sufficient number, and at least one for each deck. The system shall in 
addition to an audible alarm provide an audio-visual alarm at the steering position or other manned control room. In the 
event that the combination of a high noise level on board the vessel and the use of ear protection may make it difficult 
to hear an audible fire alarm, a visual fire alarm shall be fitted. 
Section 67 
Requirements for fire pumps  
(1)  Closed ships, except for ships with a wheelhouse only, shall have at least one fire pump. 
(2)  The fire pump shall: 
a)  be capable of being started from the steering position or other readily accessible position; 
b)  have relief valves where fire pump delivery pressure may exceed the designed working pressure of the fire 
main; and 
c)  have a non-return valve if backflow may occur. 
(3)  Sanitary, ballast, bilge and any other general service pumps may be used as fire pumps if they comply with the 
requirements for fire pumps, do not affect the ability to cope with pumping of the bilges, and are normally not used for 
pumping oil or other flammable liquids.  
(4)  When more than one fire pump is installed, each of the pumps shall have a capacity of not less than 80 per cent 
of the total capacity divided by the number of pumps.  
Section 68 
Requirements for fire pump capacity  
(1)  The minimum total fire pump capacity (Q) shall be calculated by this formula: 
[m3 / t] 
w𝑄𝑄he=re� t0h.e1 5fo�ll𝐿𝐿o𝑝𝑝w𝑝𝑝i(n𝐵𝐵g +is 𝐷𝐷in)d+ica2te.2d5 i�n metres: 
L  = the ship’s length between perpendiculars 
pp
B = the ship’s maximum moulded breadth 
D = the ship’s moulded depth to bulkhead deck amidships. 
The fire pump capacity (Q) shall in any case be at least 16 m3⁄t. 
(2)  When the fire pump is delivering the quantity of water indicated in the first paragraph, the pressure maintained at 
the hydrant(s) shall be at least 2.5 bar. Section 69 
Requirements for fire mains 
(1)  Ships equipped with fire pumps shall have a fire main. The ship's arrangement for washing the deck may be used 
as a fire main if it satisfies the requirements related to a fire main. 
(2)  The fire main and associated valves shall be arranged so that no damage is caused by deck cargo or by typical 
operations.  
(3)  The fire main shall: 
a)  have a diameter based on the capacity of the pumps and be sufficient to ensure an even distribution and an 
even pressure to the fire hoses; 
b)  be made of non-combustible materials which are heat-resistant; and 
c)  be self-draining or have drain cocks to avoid frost damage. 
Section 70 
Requirements for hydrants 
(1)  The ship shall have one or more hydrants so positioned that: 
a)  at least one jet of water from one single length of hose is capable of reaching any part of the ship to which 
the crew has access;  
b)  the entire machinery space can be reached by the jet of water from a single length of hose; 
c)  they do not become inaccessible due to deck cargo or the ship's intended operations; and 
d)  fire hoses may be readily connected. 
(2)  The hydrants shall have couplings enabling the removal of fire hoses when the fire pump or fire pumps are in 
operation. 
Section 71 
Requirements for hose stations 
(1)  A hose station shall be provided near each hydrant. This shall consist of a fire hose with connection to the hydrant, 
appurtenant nozzle(s) and two sets of coupling spanners.  
(2)  In addition to the fire hoses required by the first paragraph, there shall be at least one spare fire hose. 
(3)  Fire hoses shall not be more than 20 metres long. 
Section 72 
Requirements for portable fire extinguishers  
(1)  The fire-extinguishing medium shall be suitable for extinguishing the types of fire that may arise, in accordance 
with table 2. 
Table 2 
Fire-extinguishing medium  Suitable for use on fires involving: 
Water  wood, paper, textiles and similar materials 
Foam  wood, paper, textiles and flammable liquids 
Dry powder/dry chemical (standard/classes  flammable liquids, electrical equipment and 
B, C)  flammable gases 
Dry powder/dry chemical (standard/classes  wood, paper, textiles, flammable liquids, 
A, B, C)  electrical equipment and flammable gases 
Dry powder/dry chemical (metal)  combustible metals 
CO  flammable liquids and electrical equipment 
Wet chemical  cooking grease, fats or oil fires 
(2)  The quantity of fire-extinguishing medium in fire extinguishers shall at least be as follows: 
a)  dry powder extinguishers:  5 kg b)  CO extinguishers:  5 kg 
c)  foam extinguishers:  9 l 
(3)  Fire extinguishers with a weight of more than 23 kg are not considered portable.  
(4)  The number of suitable fire extinguishers in the various spaces shall at least be as indicated in table 3: 
Table 3 
Type of space  Minimum number of fire extinguishers 
Accommodation spaces  One extinguisher per deck, placed easily accessible from 
all spaces. The walking distance between the 
extinguishers shall not be more than 15 metres. 
Galleys and pantries  One extinguisher. One additional extinguisher if deep 
fryer is installed in galley. 
Machinery spaces  Two extinguishers. They shall be so located that no 
point in the machinery space is more than 10 metres 
walking distance from an extinguisher. One of the 
extinguishers shall be placed near the entrance. 
Service spaces  One extinguisher  
Room for main electrical   One extinguisher 
switchboard 
Wheelhouse/bridge  One extinguisher. Two extinguishers where the 
wheelhouse is larger than 50 m2. 
(5)  A fire extinguisher may be placed at the entrance, either inside or outside the space in question.  
(6)  Fire extinguishers placed in locations where they may be exposed to frost shall be of a frost-proof type. 
(7)  Pressurised extinguishers shall not be placed in cabins. 
(8)  CO extinguishers shall not be placed in accommodation spaces. 
(9)  Fire extinguishers containing a fire-extinguishing medium which, either by itself or under expected conditions of 
use, gives off toxic gases in such quantities as to endanger persons are not permitted on board. 
(10) Spare extinguishers equivalent to 50 per cent of the number required by table 3 shall be provided. 
(11) Fire extinguishers shall be subject to yearly inspections and service. Inspections and service shall be undertaken 
by a competent person in accordance with NS 3910:2006. The fire extinguishers shall be pressure-tested every ten years. 
Section 73 
Requirements for fire blanket 
A fire blanket shall be placed easily accessible in galley and pantry. 
Section 74 
Requirements for fixed fire-extinguishing systems, etc. 
(1)  When a fixed fire-extinguishing system is required in a space, the system shall be of one of the following types: 
a)  gas-based system in compliance with chapter 5 of the FSS Code; 
b)  foam-based system in compliance with chapter 6 of the FSS Code; 
c)  water-based system in compliance with chapter 7 of the FSS Code. 
(2)  Ventilation fans to spaces protected by fire-extinguishing systems shall be capable of being stopped near the place 
where the fire-extinguishing system is started. This also applies in the case of arrangements as described in section 76. 
(3)  A description of the fire-extinguishing system with instructions for use and maintenance of the system in 
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions shall be provided on board. The instructions for use shall be posted near 
the point of operation.  
(4)  Necessary spare parts for the fire-extinguishing system shall be available on board. Section 75 
Requirements for fire-extinguishing system in machinery spaces 
and cargo spaces for dangerous goods 
A fixed fire-extinguishing system satisfying the requirements of section 74 shall be installed in: 
a)  machinery spaces; and 
b)  cargo spaces for dangerous goods or other flammable cargo. 
Section 76 
Alternative solutions for fire-extinguishing systems  
in small machinery spaces 
In machinery spaces with a gross volume of up to 10 m3 an arrangement with a fire extinguisher complying with the 
following may be used as an alternative to a fixed fire-extinguishing system as mentioned in section 74 first paragraph: 
a)  The quantity of fire-extinguishing medium shall be such that a sufficient extinguishing effect is achieved. 
b)  It shall be possible to check that the fire extinguisher is intact and in working order. 
c)  When the fire extinguisher is placed outside the machinery space, it shall be possible to distribute the fire-
extinguishing medium in the machinery space through a pipe penetration or hatch.  
d)  When the fire extinguisher is placed inside the machinery space, it shall be fixed, arranged with one or more 
nozzles so that the fire-extinguishing medium is distributed in the machinery space and be capable of being 
released from a position outside the machinery space. The release mechanism shall not easily be rendered 
inoperative in the event of a fire. 
Section 77 
Requirements for fire control plan 
The fire control plan shall be exhibited in a central and conspicuous position. The plan shall show the actual location 
of the fire safety equipment at any time, and be on a scale sufficient to give a clear overview of the ship's arrangement 
and equipment in the case of fire, escape and rescue. 
Section 78 
Requirements for wheelmarking 
Equipment and materials required by this chapter and covered by Regulations of 30 August 2016 No. 1042 on marine 
equipment shall be wheelmarked. 
Amended by Regulation of 20 December 2017 No. 2379 (in force on 1 January 2018). 
Chapter 8  
Duty to notify and document control 
Section 79 
Duty to notify 
(1)  When a contract has been placed for the construction, conversion or major repair of a ship, or for the purchase of 
a ship from abroad, for which a trading certificate is required, the company shall without delay send a notification thereof 
to the Norwegian Maritime Authority.  
(2)  When a contract has been placed for the construction, conversion or major repair of a ship, or for the purchase of 
a ship from abroad, for which vessel instructions are required, the company shall without delay send a notification thereof 
to approved company. 
(3)  The notification shall be submitted on the prescribed form together with a drawing of the general arrangement. 
(4)  In the event of cancellation, changes in the contractual relationship, modification of the design of the ship or 
similar, a notification thereof shall be sent to the Norwegian Maritime Authority or approved company. Section 80 
Requirements for submission of documentation  
(1)  Documentation as indicated in Appendix 1 shall be submitted as soon as possible following notification 
concerning the construction, conversion or major repair of a ship, or purchase of a ship from abroad. The Norwegian 
Maritime Authority may require further documentation as necessary.  
(2)  The documentation shall be submitted to the Norwegian Maritime Authority in the case of ships requiring a trading 
certificate, and to approved company in the case of ships requiring vessel instructions. 
(3)  A report regarding the inclining test and calculation of lightship data shall be received before the ship is put into 
service or does a trial run. 
(4)  Final loading conditions based on the preliminary loading conditions and corrected with regard to lightship data 
shall be submitted at the latest within one month of the date of delivery of the ship. 
(5)  The documentation shall demonstrate that the requirements of both these Regulations and other regulations 
applicable to the ship, are satisfied. 
Chapter 9  
Supervision during construction,  
conversion and major repair 
Section 81 
Requirements for supervision during construction,  
conversion and major repairs 
The company shall submit a request for supervision during construction, conversion or major repair, and shall 
facilitate that the Norwegian Maritime Authority or approved company can supervise to the extent considered necessary. 
The necessary supporting documentation shall be made available to the surveyor. 
Chapter 10 
Vessel instructions issued by approved company 
for ships of less than 15 metres in overall length 
Section 82 
Requirements for vessel instructions  
Ships of 8 metres in overall length and upwards, but of less than 15 metres, shall have vessel instructions with vessel 
data and limitations on the use of the vessel. The vessel instructions shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place on board. 
Section 83 
Requirements for supervision for vessel instructions 
(1)  In order for vessel instructions to be issued, the ship shall be presented for a complete inspection by an approved 
company. 
(2)  The validity of the vessel instructions shall be renewed in that the ship is presented for periodic simplified 
inspection by an approved company within a period of 30 months of the date for the last complete inspection or of the 
date for the last periodic simplified inspection. 
(3)  The periodic simplified inspection may be carried out within six months prior to the expiry of the current validity 
period of the vessel instructions, without the date of the next inspection being changed. If the ship is not presented for 
periodic simplified inspection by the expiry of the validity period, a new complete inspection shall be carried out. 
(4)  The company shall conduct a control before the ship is presented for periodic simplified inspection. The control 
shall be documented on the notification form and report form prescribed by the Norwegian Maritime Authority. These 
forms shall be filled out and submitted to approved company before the inspection by the approved company 
commences. 
(5)  The report forms for completed complete inspection and completed periodic simplified inspection, including 
company’s control, shall be kept on board and submitted to the Norwegian Maritime Authority via an approved company. Section 84 
Requirements for presenting report form issued by  
accepted electrical enterprise and radio safety certificate 
(1)  Before vessel instructions are issued, a report form from an accepted electrical enterprise, a declaration of survey 
issued by the Norwegian Directorate for Civil Protection (DSB) or an installation attestation issued prior to 1 January 
2014 shall be issued. A radio safety certificate from an approved radio inspection company, if required, shall in addition 
be issued.  
(2)  The documents mentioned in the first paragraph shall be valid at the time of issuance of the vessel instructions or 
at the time of renewal of the validity period of the vessel instructions and at least until the next renewal. 
Section 85 
Special provisions for inspection of towing and anchor-handling  
winches, towing hooks and safety equipment for use  
during towing and anchor-handling 
(1)  On ships where towing or anchor-handling operations are carried out, qualified personnel on board shall, at least 
once annually, conduct thorough tests and inspections of: 
a)  towing winch and anchor-handling winch with appurtenant equipment, including testing of emergency 
release at full towing power; 
b)  towing hook and appurtenant equipment; and 
c)  guide pins, wire, shark-jaw, towing eyes and similar, including load tests and tests of the emergency release, 
if applicable. 
(2)  Tests shall be carried out in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.  
(3)  The completion of such inspections shall be documented, and the documentation shall be kept on board. 
(4)  Tests and inspections as mentioned in the first paragraph shall also form part of the complete inspection and 
thereafter of every second periodic simplified inspection. For these inspections the winch shall, after function testing, be 
disassembled as necessary. 
Section 86 
Special requirements for inspection of hull and machinery  
Inspections of hull and machinery shall be carried out in accordance with rules from a recognised classification 
society, and shall form part of the complete inspection and thereafter of periodic simplified inspections.  
Section 87 
Requirements for inspections in the event of modification,  
damage or loss of function 
In the event of damage, loss of function, repairs or changes in the ship or its equipment, the ship shall be inspected by 
an approved company before it is put back into service. This does not apply if the change or repair is part of the normal 
maintenance. 
Chapter 11  
Ships with building contract placed before  
1 January 2015 and delivered before 1 January 2016 
Section 88 
Requirements for ships with building contract placed  
before 1 January 2015 and delivered before 1 January 2016 
Ships with building contract placed before 1 January 2015 and delivered before 1 January 2016 shall comply with the 
following provisions: 
a)  Chapter 1 regarding general provisions. 
b)  Chapter 2 regarding construction: 
1.  section 11 regarding requirements for anchor and mooring equipment; 2.  section 13 regarding requirements for towing winch or towing hook when towing in small coasting or 
lesser trade area; 
3.  section 14 regarding requirements for towing equipment for smaller tows in trade areas 1 and 2; 
4.  section 15 regarding requirements for stern roller, winch, closed guide pins, shark-jaw and safety zone 
for anchor-handling operations in small coasting and lesser trade area; 
5.  section 16 regarding requirements for emergency release for towing or anchor-handling in small 
coasting or lesser trade area; 
6.  section 17 regarding requirements for automatic audible alarm in small coasting or lesser trade area; 
7.  section 18 regarding requirements for dimensioning, etc. of equipment and arrangement when towing 
or anchor-handling in small coasting or lesser trade area; 
8.  section 19 regarding requirement for documentation to be kept on board; and 
9.  section 20 regarding requirements for equipment and arrangement for towing or anchor-handling in 
great coasting or greater trade area. 
c)  Chapter 3 regarding stability documentation and chapter 4 regarding stability criteria, when the ship does 
not already have stability calculations for cargo ships approved by the Norwegian Maritime Authority. For 
ships which have stability calculations for cargo ships approved by the Norwegian Maritime Authority, the 
following shall apply: For ships carrying out towing operations, and which do not have towing stability for 
cargo ships approved by the Norwegian Maritime Authority, and for ships carrying out crane operations or 
anchor-handling operations, stability calculations for such operations shall be prepared in accordance with 
chapters 3 and 4 in addition to the existing stability manual. For ships of less than 15 metres in overall length, 
the Nordic Boat Standard for Commercial boats less than 15 metres, 1990, C3 may be satisfied as an 
alternative to the first and second paragraphs of section 36 regarding requirements for intact stability for 
closed ships. 
d)  Chapter 5 regarding freeboard: 
1.  section 41 regarding freeboard requirements for closed ships; and 
2.  section 42 regarding requirements for indication of draught marks for closed ships. 
e)  Chapter 7 regarding fire safety: 
1.  section 72 regarding requirements for portable fire extinguishers; 
2.  section 73 regarding requirements for other fire-fighting equipment; 
3.  section 77 regarding requirements for fire control plan; and 
4.  section 78 regarding requirements for wheelmarking. 
f)  Chapter 8 regarding duty to notify and document control. The chapter applies correspondingly for the 
issuance of vessel instructions or trading certificate to ships to which these have not previously been issued. 
g)  Chapter 9 regarding supervision during construction, conversion and major repairs. 
h)  Chapter 10 regarding vessel instructions issued by an approved company for ships of less than 15 metres in 
overall length. 
i)  Chapter 11 regarding ships with building contract placed before 1 January 2015 and delivered before 1 
January 2016. 
j)  Chapter 12 regarding concluding provisions. 
Section 89 
Transitional provisions for ships with building contract placed 
before 1 January 2015 and delivered before 1 January 2016 
(1)  For ships with building contract placed before 1 January 2015 and delivered before 1 January 2016, chapter 11 
shall apply at the latest on: 
a)  1 January 2017 for ships the keel of which was laid on or after 1 January 1990; and  
b)  1 January 2018 for ships the keel of which was laid before 1 January 1990.  
(2)  Until these dates the regulations which were in force for the various ships on 31 December 2014 shall apply, with 
the exception of chapter 11 of Regulations of 15 June 1987 No. 506 on survey for the issue of certificates to passenger 
ships, cargo ships and lighters, and on other surveys, etc. 
Amended by Regulation of 18 December 2015 No. 1769 (in force on 1 January 2016). 
Section 89a 
(Repealed) 
Added by Regulation of 18 December 2015 No. 1769 (in force on 1 January 2016), repealed by Regulation of 18 December 2015 No. 1769 (in force on 
1 January 2018). 
Chapter 12  
Concluding provisions 
Section 90 
Exemptions 
The Norwegian Maritime Authority may upon written application exempt one ship, or a limited series of ships which 
are identical, from one or more of the requirements of these Regulations if it is established that one of the following 
conditions is met: 
a)  special reasons make the requirement less essential for this ship, and the exemption is justifiable in terms of 
safety; 
b)  compensating measures will maintain the same level of safety as the requirement of these Regulations; 
c)  the requirement hinders the testing, development or use of an innovative solution, and the innovative solution 
is justifiable in terms of safety. 
Section 91 
Entry into force 
These Regulations enter into force on 1 January 2015. As from the same date, the following amendments are made 
to other regulations: 
a)  Regulations of 1 July 2014 No. 1072 on the construction of ships are amended as follows: 
--- 
b)  Regulations of 1 July 2014 No. 1099 on fire protection on ships are amended as follows: 
--- 
Appendix 1  
List of drawings 
Documentation which clearly demonstrates compliance with the requirements applicable to the vessel in question shall 
be submitted. Not all documentation in the list below is relevant for all vessels; the documentation to be submitted is 
decided by the requirements applicable for the vessel in question. If documentation has been submitted at an earlier 
stage, and the vessel, outfitting or equipment has not been changed, it is sufficient to refer to previously submitted 
documentation. 
Column 2 indicates groups of vessels to be inspected with regard to delivery date (new or existing) and size (less than 
or more than 15 metres), columns 3 and 4 contain the designation of the documentation to be submitted and the 
information which at a minimum should be contained therein, while column 5 refers to the Regulations where the 
requirements in question are laid down.  
The company shall submit the documentation to the Norwegian Maritime Authority for trading certificate and to an 
approved company for vessel instructions.  
The Norwegian Maritime Authority or approved company may request that further documentation, including 
documentation not listed below, be submitted as necessary. 
1  2  3  4  5 
C – Common  All Ships  General     
arrangement 
N13 –  All Ships  Accommodation  Area of cabins, mess-rooms, day  Regulations of 15 
Nautical  drawing  rooms and galleys.  September 1992 No. 
707 on the 
accommodation and 
(May be  Width of corridors and doors.  catering service on 
included in  ships 
general 
arrangement  Height from deck up to below 
drawing.)  deck. Location of cabins in relation to 
the waterline. 
All Ships  Means of escape  Means of access, exits and  Regulations of 15 
emergency exits.  September 1992 No. 
707 on the 
(May be  Stairways and ladders  accommodation and 
included in a  catering service on 
fire control and  Width of stairways and  ships 
safety plan)  appurtenant doors. 
All Ships  Navigating  Blind sectors on bridge  Regulations of 5 
bridge visibility  September 2014 No. 
1157 on navigation and 
navigational aids for 
(May be  Details of windows on bridge  ships and mobile 
included in  offshore units 
general 
arrangement 
drawing.) 
All Ships  Lighting   Placement  Regulations of 1 
arrangement  December 1975 No. 5 
Blind sectors  for preventing 
collisions at sea 
Type approval certificate 
All Ships  Wheelhouse   Layout  Regulations of 5 
arrangement  September 2014 No. 
Profile  1157 on navigation and 
navigational aids for 
Cross-section of forward and  ships and mobile 
after sections and sides.  offshore units 
Seats in radio room. 
Location of equipment 
Information about equipment 
regarding manufacturer and type 
approval. 
RM9 –   All Ships  Life-saving   Rescue boats with davits in  Regulations of 1 July 
Life-saving  arrangements  relation to hull and propeller.  2014 No. 1019 on life-
appliances  saving appliances on 
ships 
(Fire control  Arrangements for bringing 
plan and life- persons gently on board, if any. 
saving 
arrangements 
may be  Liferafts 
combined in a 
fire and safety  Means of embarkation 
plan) 
Radar transponders and EPIRB. 
Lifejackets Lifebuoys 
Immersion suits 
Water outlets in the vessel’s 
side. 
Manufacturer, size, type, 
capacity, etc., shall be indicated 
for the life-saving equipment. 
Symbols shall be in accordance 
with a recognised international 
standard. 
All Ships  Rescue boat  Foundation and underlying  Regulations of 1 July 
arrangement  structure of davit with  2014 No. 1019 on life-
appurtenant calculations.  saving appliances on 
ships 
M12 –   All new ships  Oil fuel  Arrangement for filling,  Regulations of 19 
Machine  between 8 and  arrangement  discharging and trimming of oil  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  fuel tanks  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Make and type of essential 
between 15  components which form part of 
and 24 metres  the system 
Diameter, material thickness and 
material type for pipes 
Operating position for quick-
action closing valves 
All new ships  Bilge water  Arrangement showing collection  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  arrangement  of oily bilge water  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Make and type of essential 
between 15  components which form part of 
and 24 metres  the system 
Pump capacity 
Diameter, material thickness and 
material type for pipes 
All new ships  Sea water inlets  Make and type of essential  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  and outlets  components which form part of  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  the system   construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships All ships  Diameter, material thickness and 
between 15  material type for pipes 
and 24 metres 
Position of overboard valves in 
relation to the waterline 
All new ships  Starting air  Make and type of essential  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  system  components which form part of  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  the system  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Diameter, material thickness and 
between 15  material type for pipes 
and 24 metres 
All new ships  Machinery  Arrangement   Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  space  of machinery spaces  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  arrangement  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Means of escape from 
between 15  machinery spaces 
and 24 metres 
All new ships  Ballast water  Make and type of essential  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  arrangement  components which form part of  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  the system  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Diameter, material thickness and 
between 15  material type for pipes 
and 24 metres 
Position of overboard valves in 
relation to the waterline 
Calculations of system capacity 
All new ships  Propulsion and  Type  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  propeller  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  arrangement  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Make 
between 15 
and 24 metres 
All new ships  Documentation  Type approval from recognised  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  for machinery  classification society for  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  propulsion machinery, auxiliary  construction and 
machinery, steering gear, boilers  supervision of small 
and pressure vessels.  cargo ships All ships 
between 15 
and 24 metres 
All new ships  Report or    Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  confirmation  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  concerning a  construction and 
completed  supervision of small 
torsional  cargo ships 
oscillation 
All ships  check for 
between 15  machinery with 
and 24 metres  an output of 
more than 500 
kW, or 300 kW 
if the length of 
the shaft 
arrangement 
exceeds 6 
metres. 
E16 –  All new ships  Layout of  Make, type and capacity of  Regulations of 19 
Electrical  emergency  essential components which  December 2014 on the 
documentation  generator room  form part of the system  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
The specific oil fuel  
consumption of  
the emergency generator 
All new ships  Power balance  Power balance/load analysis for  Regulations of 19 
of emergency  the emergency source of  December 2014 on the 
source of  electrical power  construction and 
electrical power  supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All new ships  Emergency  Power balance  Regulations of 19 
lighting  December 2014 on the 
arrangement  Make, type and location  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
S-14 Hull  All new ships  Documentation    Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  demonstrating  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  that the  construction and 
production  supervision of small 
conditions for  cargo ships All ships  ships 
between 15  constructed 
and 24 metres  wholly or 
partly of 
fibreglass-
reinforced 
polyester or 
other cast 
materials 
comply with 
the regulatory 
provisions for 
production 
conditions.  
New ships  Profile and  Longitudinal in vertical and  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  deck plan  horizontal plane. Shall show  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  water ballast tanks, bulkheads,  construction and 
erections, hatches, etc.   supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Shall include the vessel's main 
between 15  dimensions, baseline, maximum 
and 24 metres  draught and frame spacing. 
New ships  Midship  Transverse showing design of  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  section  bottom, camber etc.  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Shall show the frames essential 
between 15  for the dimensioning, generally at 
and 24 metres  least one frame in each space. The 
midship section drawing shall 
contain information about the 
vessel's equipment number and 
anchor equipment. The baseline 
shall be sketched in for each 
frame. 
New ships  Shell  Shall show the shell expansion in  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  expansion  unfolded condition.  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships 
between 15 
and 24 metres 
New ships  Watertight    Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  bulkheads /  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  tank bulkheads  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships 
between 15 
and 24 metres   New ships  Foundations of  The drawing shall show  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  deck  foundations including underlying  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  machinery and  structure. Shall be submitted for  construction and 
launching  winch, towing hook, davit, etc.  supervision of small 
arrangements  The SWL shall be indicated on  cargo ships 
All ships  for life-saving  the drawing. 
between 15  appliances 
and 24 metres 
New ships  Deck  The drawing shall show the  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  arrangement  location of deck machinery,  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  winches, containers, cranes and  construction and 
similar with fittings.   supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships       
between 15 
and 24 metres 
New ships  Hatch cover  The drawing shall show  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  for cargo  dimensions, materials and  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  spaces  gaskets along with the number of  construction and 
hinges.  supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships 
between 15 
and 24 metres 
New ships  Rudder    Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  arrangement  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships 
between 15 
and 24 metres 
New ships  Dimensioning  Dimensioning calculations  Regulations of 19 
between 8 and  calculations  showing regulatory requirements  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  and achieved values in  construction and 
compliance with the construction  supervision of small 
standard in accordance with  cargo ships 
All ships  which the ship is constructed.  
between 15 
and 24 metres 
All Ships    Documentation from the  Regulations of 19 
Documentation  manufacturer shall be submitted,  December 2014 on the 
for winch,  which shows that the  construction and 
towing hook,  requirements of the Regulations  supervision of small 
guide pins,  are satisfied. The documentation  cargo ships 
shark-jaw and  shall also include information 
other fixed  regarding SWL. 
equipment.   All Ships  Documentation  Drawings and calculations of the  Regulations of 19 
for towing and  towing and/or anchor-handling  December 2014 on the 
anchor- winch, wire/chain stopper, guide  construction and 
handling  pins, towing hooks, etc.  supervision of small 
equipment  cargo ships 
(Vessels with a  Anchor-handling plan showing 
particular class  the arrangement of the anchor-
for anchor- handling system, including the 
handling and  line routing, all equipment 
towing  forming part of the anchor-
equipment  handling system and fastenings 
may instead  on deck which may be used 
submit  during the anchor-handling. The 
documentation  drawing shall also indicate the 
thereof.)  SWL for all components forming 
part of the system. 
Towing arrangement plan for 
ocean towing. 
S10 –   All Ships  Preliminary  Intact stability calculations, with  Regulations of 19 
Stability  stability  loading conditions  December 2014 on the 
calculations  construction and 
supervision of small 
Input data for hull description  cargo ships 
Instructions for use of  
anti-rolling tanks, indicating 
limitations when using anti-
rolling tanks. The  
instructions shall be supported 
by loading conditions. 
GM / KG  curves with 
min max
examples of the use of these. 
Cross curves 
Hydrostatic curves and tables: 
For vessels with cargo wells, 
hydrostatics shall in addition be 
laid out with the well totally 
excluded from the buoyancy. The 
hydrostatics shall be clearly 
marked to the effect that it applies 
only when the well is excluded 
from the buoyancy. 
Tank plan 
Sounding tables for tanks Lines drawing 
Outline of buoyancy volumes 
with means of closure and 
flooding openings. 
Stability information for towing, 
if any. 
Information about maximum 
permitted weight as a function of 
extension and direction of crane, 
if applicable. 
Stability information for anchor-  
handling, if any. 
All Ships  Inclining test  The inclining test shall be carried  Regulations of 19 
report  out in accordance with the  December 2014 on the 
Norwegian Maritime Authority’s  construction and 
procedure, and the report shall  supervision of small 
contain:  cargo ships 
Lightship data 
Draught measurements 
Description of inclining weights, 
with weight and centre of gravity 
Length of pendulums and 
pendulum readings 
Description of the movements of 
the inclining weights 
Arm for moved weights 
Heeling moment for each move 
and plot of heeling moment 
Calculation of GM for the listed 
ship 
Additional weights 
Hydrostatics for heeling 
waterline 
Calculation of lightship data   All Ships  Final stability  Stability calculations with  Regulations of 19 
calculations  updated lightship data according  December 2014 on the 
to approved inclining test report  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
LS6 –  New ships  Freeboard plan  The overall length, length (L)  Regulations of 19 
Load line  between 8 and  and moulded depth of the vessel.  December 2014 on the 
15 metres  construction and 
supervision of small 
cargo ships 
All ships  Extension and height of 
between 15  weathertight enclosed 
and 24 metres  superstructure. 
Location and type of means of 
closure for hatches in freeboard 
deck and superstructure. 
Exterior doors in weathertight 
superstructure and deckhouse 
protecting accesses to below 
freeboard deck and first 
superstructure deck. 
Sidescuttles in ship's sides and 
superstructure. 
Windows in erections on 
freeboard deck and first 
superstructure deck. 
The heights of coamings and sills 
of hatches and doors. 
Location and area of freeing 
ports. 
Location and type of valves for 
sanitary pipelines, scuppers, etc. 
and of other overboard 
ventilators. 
Outline of means of closure, 
location and indication of height 
above deck for air pipes and 
ventilators. 
Location of deck line at L/2. 
Bulwarks and guard rails. 
Doors in shipside, bow and 
outboard side. B19 –  All new ships  Insulation  Structural fire protection with  Regulations of 19 
Structural fire  arrangement or  subdivision into A and B class  December 2014 on the 
protection  fire divisions  divisions.  construction and 
supervision of small 
Location of all A and B class  cargo ships 
divisions in bulkheads and decks. 
Details of A class divisions, with 
regard to connections and 
materials used. 
Categorisation of rooms. 
All new ships  Door plan  Fire class standard of doors  Regulations of 19 
December 2014 on the 
construction and 
Dimensions of doors  supervision of small 
cargo ships 
Hold-back mechanisms, if any 
Ventilation openings or similar 
in the doors, if any. 
All new ships  Ventilation  Arrangement/layout of the  Regulations of 19 
arrangement  ventilation ducts in  December 2014 on the 
accommodation spaces, control  construction and 
stations, service spaces, store- supervision of small 
rooms, machinery spaces and, if  cargo ships 
applicable, cargo spaces and 
pump rooms. 
Details of penetrations in 
bulkheads and decks. 
B11 – Fire- All Ships  Fire control  The drawing shall show the  Regulations of 19 
fighting  plan  location of:  December 2014 on the 
construction and 
(Fire control  The vessel’s structural fire  supervision of small 
plan and life- protection with A and B class  cargo ships 
saving  bulkheads 
arrangements 
may be  Fire detection and fire alarm 
combined in a 
fire and safety 
plan)  Sprinkler systems 
Fixed fire-extinguishing 
equipment 
Portable fire-extinguishing 
equipment 
Access to spaces and decks etc. 
Stopping of fans and dampers in 
the ventilation system. Shut-off valves for oil fuel and 
lubricating oil. 
Fire pump and emergency fire 
pump, if any, with capacity. 
Symbols shall be in accordance 
with a recognised international 
standard. 
All new ships  Fire main  Arrangement of fire main system  Regulations of 19 
December 2014 on the 
construction and 
Location of main fire pumps and  supervision of small 
hydrants  cargo ships 
Location of emergency fire 
pump 
Capacity of main fire pumps and 
emergency fire pumps 
All new ships  Fire alarm and  General arrangement showing  Regulations of 19 
fire detection  the location of:  December 2014 on the 
construction and 
– fire detection in  supervision of small 
accommodation, service and  cargo ships 
machinery spaces 
– fire alarms 
Connection diagram (one-line 
diagram) showing: 
– coupling of the loops for the 
units indicated on the general 
arrangement 
Copy of type approval 
certificate. 
All new ships  Fixed fire- Type approval certificate  Regulations of 19 
extinguishing  December 2014 on the 
system in  Manual showing documentation  construction and 
machinery  required by type approval  supervision of small 
spaces  certificate  cargo ships 
Arrangement drawings showing 
location of nozzles and release 
stations 
Capacity calculations 
Instructions for activation of 
system   All new ships  Manual for    Regulations of 19 
fire- December 2014 on the 
extinguishing  construction and 
system  supervision of small 
cargo ships 
