Regulations of 22 December 2014 No. 1893 on  
supervision and certificates for Norwegian ships  
and mobile offshore units 
Legal basis: Laid down by the Norwegian Maritime Authority on 22 December 2014 under the Act of 16 February 2007 No. 9 relating to ship safety 
and security (Ship Safety and Security Act) sections 2, 9, 13, 22, 22a, 41, 42, 43 and 47, cf. Formal Delegation of 16 February 2007 No. 171, Formal 
Delegation of 31 May 2007 No. 590 and Formal Delegation of 19 August 2013 No. 1002. 
EEA references: EEA Agreement Annex XIII point 55b (Directive 94/57/EC as amended by Directive 97/58/EC, Directive 2001/105/EC and Directive 
2002/84/EC), point 56f (Directive 2009/45/EC as amended by Directive 2010/36/EC) and point 56q (Regulation (EC) No 789/2004). 
Amendments: Amended by Regulations of 18 December 2015 No. 1769, 14 October 2016 No. 1211, 8 September 2017 No. 1369, 10 November 2017 
No. 1778, 18 December 2015 No. 1769, 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020), 14 January 2020 No. 65 (in force on 1 February 2020).  
Chapter 1  
General provisions 
Section 1  
Scope of application 
(1)  These Regulations apply to Norwegian: 
a)  cargo ships of 15 metres in overall length and upwards, unless otherwise provided by the individual sections; 
b)  ships not used for commercial purposes and of 24 metres in overall length and upwards; 
c)  barges of 15 metres in overall length and upwards; 
d)  passenger ships; 
e)  fishing vessels of 15 metres in overall length and upwards; 
f)  mobile offshore units. 
(2)  These Regulations also apply to Norwegian ships which shall be used in oil recovery operations or as standby 
vessels, irrespective of size. 
(3)  These Regulations do not apply to cargo ships of less than 24 metres in length (L) which are covered by the scope 
of application of the Regulations on vessels of less than 24 metres carrying 12 passengers or less, etc., and which are 
engaged only in activities described therein. 
Amended by Regulation of 14 January 2020 No. 65 (in force on 1 February 2020). 
Section 2  
Request for supervision 
(1)  The company shall submit a request for supervision as soon as possible when: 
a)  a contract for the construction of a ship or mobile offshore unit has been placed; 
b)  a certificate for a ship or mobile offshore unit is to be issued to or renewed; 
c)  an inspection shall be carried out of the working and living conditions (MLC inspection) on board a ship or 
mobile offshore unit without the issuance of a certificate; 
d)  a survey shall be carried out of the ballast water management system on board a ship or mobile offshore unit 
without the issuance of a certificate; 
e)  a ship or mobile offshore unit has been ordered to carry out repairs due to breakdown, damage or defects; 
f)  the hull, arrangements, machinery, equipment and other components on a ship or mobile offshore unit shall 
be or has been changed; 
g)  the class of a ship or mobile offshore unit in a recognised classification society is deleted; 
h)  a ship or mobile offshore unit is transferred to a Norwegian ship register. 
(2)  For mobile offshore units which have been laid up for more than 12 months, the company shall request supervision 
before the mobile offshore unit is put into service. 
(3)  The request shall be submitted to: 
a)  the Norwegian Maritime Authority on the prescribed form, except in cases mentioned in subparagraphs b to 
d of this paragraph; 
b)  the classification society when the supervisory authority has been delegated to a recognised classification 
society; 
c)  an approved radio inspection company in the event of radio supervision; 
d)  the Norwegian Directorate for Civil Protection (DSB) in the event of supervision of electrical installations 
on cargo ships, barges and fishing vessels not classed in a recognised classification society and on passenger 
ships. Section 3  
Requirements for recognised organisations 
Annex XIII to the EEA Agreement (Directive 94/57/EC, as amended by Directive 97/58/EC, Directive 2001/105/EC 
and Directive 2002/84/EC) on common rules and standards for ship inspection and survey organizations and the relevant 
activities of maritime administrations applies as regulation with amendments and additions pursuant to Protocol 1 to the 
Agreement and the Agreement in general. 
Chapter 2  
Transfer of ships and mobile offshore units  
to a Norwegian ship register 
Section 4  
Supervision of cargo ships and passenger ships  
being transferred to a Norwegian ship register  
from a ship register in the European Economic Area 
Annex XIII point 56q to the EEA Agreement (Regulation (EC) No 789/2004) of 21 April 2004 on the transfer of cargo 
and passenger ships between registers within the Community and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 613/91 applies 
as regulation with amendments and additions pursuant to Protocol 1 to the Agreement and the Agreement in general. 
Section 5  
Documentation when requesting transfer to a Norwegian ship register 
(1)  For ships or mobile offshore units which have not previously held a Norwegian certificate nor are covered by 
section 4, the company shall, together with the request, submit information regarding life-saving appliances, stability, 
fire  protection  and  fire  fighting  arrangements,  accommodation  arrangements  and  towing  and  anchor-handling 
equipment, if any, indicated in the prescribed list of documentation. 
(2)  For fishing vessels, the company shall submit the information indicated in the list of documentation in Appendix 
3 to Regulations of 13 June 2000 No. 660 on the construction, operation, equipment and surveys of fishing vessels of 
15 m in overall length (LOA) and over. 
Chapter 3  
Supervision of and certificates  
for ships and mobile offshore units 
Section 6  
Passenger Ship Safety Certificate 
(1)  Ships engaged on international voyages carrying more than 12 passengers shall have: 
a)  a Passenger Ship Safety Certificate; 
b)  an  Exemption  Certificate  showing  terms  for  exemptions,  if  any,  granted  pursuant  to  SOLAS 
SLS.14/Circ.115/Add.3; 
c)  an attachment to the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate indicating the number of lifeboats and other life-
saving appliances the ship is required to have when the ship, on a particular voyage, has on board fewer 
passenger than the number for which it is certified; 
d)  an attachment to the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate indicating the limitation in the significant wave height 
applicable to ro-ro passenger ships, resulting from the special stability requirements applicable to ro-ro 
passenger ships. 
(2)  Valid declaration of survey for electrical installations shall be available, and survey of radio installations shall be 
completed before a Passenger Ship Safety Certificate may be issued. 
(3)  The Passenger Ship Safety Certificate is issued with a validity of up to twelve months. Exemption Certificates as 
mentioned in the first paragraph cannot be given longer validity than the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate. Section 7  
Supervision for Passenger Ship Safety Certificate 
Ships required to have a Passenger Ship Safety Certificate shall be subject to the following supervision, based on the 
IMO Survey Guidelines under the Harmonized System of Survey and Certification (HSSC), in order to demonstrate that 
the ship complies with the requirements for construction and outfitting applicable to passenger ships engaged on 
international voyages: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every twelve months, cf. section 35; 
c)  inspection of the outside of the ship's bottom at every renewal survey; 
i.  at least two of the bottom inspections as required by subparagraph c shall during any five-year period 
be carried out when the ship is dry; 
ii.  the interval between two inspections of the bottom when the ship is dry shall not exceed 36 months; 
iii.  passenger ships following the special guidelines of the HSSC, cf. MSC.1/Circ.1348, may in lieu of the 
requirements pursuant to subparagraph c (i) and (ii) during any five-year period carry out one bottom 
inspection when the ship is dry. The five-year period coincides with the validity of the ship’s 
International Load Line Certificate. 
Amended by Regulation of 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020). 
Section 8 
Safety certificates for cargo ships engaged on foreign voyages 
(1)  Cargo ships of 300 gross tonnage and upwards engaged on foreign voyages shall have a Cargo Ship Safety Radio 
Certificate. 
(2)  Cargo ships of 500 gross tonnage and upwards engaged on foreign voyages shall have: 
a)  a Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate; 
b)  a Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate; 
c)  an  Exemption  Certificate  showing  terms  for  exemptions,  if  any,  granted  pursuant  to  SOLAS 
SLS.14/Circ.115/Add.3. 
(3)  Valid declaration of survey for electrical installations or valid class certificate shall be available before the Cargo 
Ship Safety Construction Certificate and Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate may be issued. 
(4)  The Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate, Equipment Certificate and Radio Certificate are issued with a 
validity of up to five years. Exemption Certificates as mentioned in the first paragraph cannot be given longer validity 
than the cargo ship safety certificates. 
Section 9  
Supervision for Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate,  
Equipment Certificate and Radio Certificate 
(1)  Ships required to have a Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate shall be subject to the following supervision, 
based on HSSC, in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the requirements for construction of cargo ships: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years, cf. section 35; 
c)  intermediate survey within three months before or after the second or third anniversary date of the certificate. 
The intermediate survey may take the place of the annual survey required by subparagraph d; 
d)  annual survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate; 
e)  inspection of the outside of the ship's bottom at least twice during the five-year period of the validity of the 
certificate; 
i.  bottom inspections shall be carried out when the ship is dry. One bottom inspection shall be carried 
out in conjunction with the fourth anniversary date of or the renewal survey for the certificate; 
ii.  when the validity of the ship's safety certificate is extended, the deadline for the bottom inspection 
may be extended correspondingly. In all cases the interval between any two bottom inspections shall 
not exceed 36 months. 
(2)  Ships required to have a Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate shall be subject to the following supervision, 
based on the HSSC, in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the requirements for equipment on cargo ships: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years, cf. section 35; 
c)  periodical survey within three months before or after the second or third anniversary date of the certificate. 
The periodical survey may take the place of the annual survey of equipment required by subparagraph d; d)  annual survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate. 
(3)  Ships required to have a Cargo Ship Safety Radio Certificate shall be subject to the following supervision, based 
on the HSSC, in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the requirements for radiocommunication equipment 
on cargo ships: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years, cf. section 35; 
c)  periodical survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate. 
(4)  Completed intermediate, periodical and annual surveys, and inspections of the outside of the ship's bottom, shall 
be documented by endorsement by the Norwegian Maritime Authority or other supervisory authorities. 
Amended by Regulation of 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020). 
Section 10  
International Load Line Certificate for passenger and cargo ships 
(1)  Passenger ships of 24 metres in length (L) and upwards engaged on international voyages and cargo ships of 
24 metres in length (L) and upwards engaged on foreign voyages shall have: 
a)  an International Load Line Certificate; 
b)  an Exemption Certificate showing terms for exemptions, if any, granted from the load line requirements. 
(2)  Record of Condition of Assignment of Load Lines shall be available before the International Load Line Certificate 
is issued. The record shall be signed and stamped by the Norwegian Maritime Authority, recognised classification society 
or by another State which is a Party to the International Load Line Convention. 
(3)  International Load Line Certificates are issued with a validity of up to five years. Exemption Certificates as 
mentioned in the first paragraph cannot be given longer validity than the International Load Line Certificate. 
Section 11  
Supervision for International Load Line Certificate 
(1)  Ships required to have an International Load Line Certificate shall be subject to the following supervision, based 
on the HSSC, in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the load line requirements for ships: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years; 
c)  annual survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate. 
(2) Completed annual surveys shall be documented by endorsement by the Norwegian Maritime Authority or other 
supervisory authorities. 
Amended by Regulation of 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020). 
Section 12  
Mobile Offshore Unit Certificate of Fitness 
(1)  Mobile offshore units shall have a Mobile Offshore Unit Certificate of Fitness. In addition to certificates which 
the mobile offshore unit is required to have pursuant to other regulations laid down under the Ship Safety and Security 
Act, the Mobile Offshore Unit Certificate of Fitness includes the following certificates: 
a)  Mobile Offshore Unit Safety Construction Certificate; 
b)  Mobile Offshore Unit Safety Equipment Certificate; 
c)  Mobile Offshore Unit Safety Radio Certificate; 
d)  Mobile Offshore Unit Load Line Certificate. 
(2) The certificate of fitness shall have two appendices: 
a)  appendix 1 informs of any limitations related to construction or operation applicable to the mobile offshore 
unit; 
b)  appendix 2 indicates the regulations pursuant to the which the mobile offshore unit is certified, and any 
exemptions granted from these. 
(3)  A valid survey report for electrical installations shall be available before the Mobile Offshore Unit Certificate of 
Fitness may be issued. 
(4)  Certificates for mobile offshore units are issued with a validity of up to five years. Section 13  
Supervision for certificates for mobile offshore units 
Mobile offshore units required to have a Mobile Offshore Unit Certificate of Fitness shall be subject to the following 
supervision in order to demonstrate that the mobile offshore unit complies with the requirements for construction, 
equipment and operation for mobile offshore units: 
a)  initial survey before the mobile offshore unit is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years. The survey may commence up to six months before the expiry of the 
certificates. 
Section 14  
Certificate for working and living conditions 
(1)  Cargo ships and passenger ships, of 500 gross tonnage and upwards engaged on foreign voyages, shall have a 
Maritime Labour Certificate. The certificate consists of a certificate part and a Declaration of Maritime Labour 
Compliance. 
(2)  The Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance required pursuant to the first paragraph consists of two parts: 
a)  Part I is drawn up by the Norwegian Maritime Authority and provides information on: 
i.  the provisions implementing the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (MLC); 
ii.  substantially equivalent implementation of the MLC into Norwegian legislation, cf. paragraph 3 of 
MLC article VI; 
iii.  any exemptions from MLC chapter 3, granted under the Regulations of 21 April 2017 No. 515 on 
accommodation, recreational facilities, food and catering on ships. 
b)  Part II is drawn up by the company, and shall identify: 
i.  how the requirements described in Part I are met; 
ii.  the  measures  adopted  to  ensure  continuous  improvement  and  ongoing  compliance  with  the 
requirements for working and living conditions on board; 
iii.  how the compliance with the provisions is continuously checked, the person(s) responsible for the 
control, where the compliance is documented and the measures implemented when lack of compliance 
is identified. 
(3)  The Maritime Labour Certificate is issued with a validity of up to five years. The certificate ceases to be valid if 
the operation of the ship is transferred to another company. 
(4)  Fishing vessels shall have a certificate for working and living conditions when the vessel has: 
a)  an overall length of 15 metres and upwards and is certified for Deepsea fishing I or greater trade area; 
b)  a length (L) of 24 metres and upwards and is certified for Bank fishing I or greater trade area. 
(5)  The certificate required pursuant to the fourth paragraph shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements 
implementing ILO Convention No. 188 concerning work in the fishing sector, and shall be issued with a validity of up 
to five years when the trading certificate required pursuant to section 26 first paragraph is issued for the first time or 
renewed on or after 16 November 2017, cf. section 27 first paragraph (a) or (b). 
Amended by Regulation of 10 November 2017 No. 1778 (in force on 16 November 2017). 
Section 15  
Supervision for certificate for working and living conditions 
(1)  Cargo ships and passenger ships required to have Maritime Labour Certificate shall be subject to the following 
inspections in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the requirements for living and working conditions on 
board ships: 
a)  initial inspection before the certificate may be issued for the first time; 
b)  intermediate inspection between the second and third anniversary date of the certificate; 
c)  renewal inspection every five years. 
(2)  Supervision required pursuant to the first paragraph may alternatively be carried out in conjunction with an audit 
of the safety management system on board. 
(3)  Completed intermediate inspections pursuant to the first paragraph (b) shall be documented by endorsement by 
the Norwegian Maritime Authority or other supervisory authorities. 
(4)  Fishing vessels required to have Certificate for working and living conditions shall be subject to the following 
inspections in order to demonstrate that the fishing vessel complies with the requirements for working and living 
conditions on board fishing vessels: 
a)  initial inspection before the certificate may be issued for the first time; 
b)  renewal inspection every five years. 
Amended by Regulation of 10 November 2017 No. 1778 (in force on 16 November 2017). 
Section 16  
Interim Maritime Labour Certificate 
(1)  An Interim Maritime Labour Certificate may be issued for a period not exceeding six months to: 
a)  newbuildings; 
b)  ships which are transferred to a Norwegian ship register; 
c)  ships of which a company assumes responsibility for the operation, when the ship is new to that company. 
(2)  An interim certificate may be issued following completed inspection which, as far as reasonable and practicable, 
can verify that the ship complies with the requirements of MLC Appendix A5-I, and that the company has: 
a)  applied for the Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance Part I to be issued; 
b)  drawn up adequate procedures demonstrating that the provisions implementing the MLC can be complied 
with; 
c)  confirmed that the master is familiar with the requirements and the responsibilities for implementation. 
(3)  An interim certificate cannot be extended. Also, no further interim certificate may be issued to the same ship 
before the final Maritime Labour Certificate is issued. 
Section 17  
MLC inspection of ships not required  
to have a Maritime Labour Certificate 
(1)  Cargo ships and passenger ships certified for trade area 3 or greater, and Class A, B, C or D passenger ships, 
which are not required to have a Maritime Labour Certificate, cf. section 14 first paragraph, shall be subject to MLC 
inspection in conjunction with: 
a)  the initial survey and second or third renewal survey in a five-year period for Passenger Ship Safety 
Certificate in domestic trade, or construction and equipment certificate issued pursuant to the DSC Code; 
b)  the initial survey, renewal survey and second or third periodical survey during the certificate period for High-
Speed Craft Safety Certificate; 
c)  the initial survey, renewal survey and second or third annual survey during the certificate period for 
Passenger Certificate; 
d)  the initial survey and intermediate survey during the certificate period for trading certificate for cargo ships. 
(2)  The MLC inspection may alternatively be carried out in conjunction with an audit of the safety management 
system on board. 
(3)  The interval between two MLC inspections shall not exceed 36 months. 
Section 18  
Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for  
passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages 
(1)  Class A, B, C or D passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages in the European Economic Area, shall have a 
Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships engages on domestic voyages if the ship: 
a)  was constructed on or after 1 May 2000; 
b)  was constructed before 1 May 2000 and is of 24 metres in length (L) and upwards. 
(2)  The safety certificate shall have: 
a)  an attachment indicating the number of lifeboats and other life-saving appliances the ship is required to have 
when the ship, on a particular voyage, has on board fewer passenger than the number for which it is certified; 
b)  an attachment indicating the limitation in the significant wave height applicable to Class A and B ro-ro 
passenger ships and Class C ro-ro passenger ships constructed on or after 1 October 2004, resulting from the 
special stability requirements applicable to ro-ro passenger ships. 
(3)  During relocation without cargo or passengers, Class C or D passenger ships may cross sea areas of class B. 
(4)  Valid declaration of survey or installation attestation for electrical installations shall be available, and survey of 
radio installations shall be completed before the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships engaged on 
domestic voyages may be issued. 
(5)  The Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages is issued with a validity 
of up to twelve months. Section 19  
Supervision for Passenger Ship Safety Certificate  
for passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages 
Ships required to have a Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages shall be 
subject to the following supervision, based on the HSSC, in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the 
requirements for construction and outfitting applicable to Class A, B, C or D passenger ships: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every twelve months; 
c)  inspection of the outside of the ship's bottom at every renewal survey; 
i.  at least two inspections of the ship's bottom shall during any five-year period be carried out when the 
ship is dry; 
ii.  the interval between two bottom inspections when the ship is dry shall not exceed 36 months; 
d)  initial survey and second or third renewal survey during a five-year period for passenger ships which are 
engaged on domestic voyages and are not required to have an International Oil Pollution Prevention 
Certificate (IOPP) or International Air Pollution Prevention Certificate (IAPP), shall also include measures 
against oil and air pollution. 
Amended by Regulation of 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020). 
Section 20  
Passenger Certificate 
(1)  Ships engaged on domestic voyages carrying more than 12 passengers shall have a Passenger Certificate when 
the ship: 
a)  was constructed before 1 May 2000 and is of less than 24 metres in length (L); or 
b)  is a high-speed craft of less than 24 metres in length (L); or 
c)  is operating in trade area 2 or lesser trade area. 
The first sentence does not apply to wooden ships set out in the Regulations of 23 January 2020 No. 69 on open wooden 
ships carrying 12 passengers or more. 
(2)  Ships carrying 12 passengers or less which are used for medical service or ambulance service or for organised 
transport to and from schools shall have a Passenger Certificate. 
(3)  During relocation without cargo or passengers, ships with a Passenger Certificate may cross trade areas in 
domestic trade which are up to two trade areas greater than indicated on the Passenger Certificate. 
(4)  Valid declaration of survey or installation attestation for electrical installations shall be available before the 
Passenger Certificate may be issued. 
(5)  The Passenger Certificate is issued with a validity of up to five years. Any operating limitations resulting from 
the ship being high-speed, protected or historical, shall be indicated on the Passenger Certificate. 
Amended by Regulation of 14 January 2020 No. 65 (in force on 1 February 2020). 
Section 21a  
Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships in the territorial waters 
surrounding Svalbard 
(1)  Ships carrying more than 12 passengers in the territorial waters surrounding Svalbard and not holding a 
Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships engaged on international voyages shall have a Passenger Ship 
Safety Certificate for ships in the territorial waters surrounding Svalbard. 
(2) Valid declaration of survey for electrical installations shall be available, and survey of radio installations shall be 
completed before the safety certificate may be issued. 
(3) The Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships in the territorial waters surrounding Svalbard is issued 
with a validity of up to twelve months. 
Added by Regulation of 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020). Section 21b  
Supervision for Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships in the territorial 
waters surrounding Svalbard 
Ships required to have a Passenger Ship Safety Certificate for passenger ships in the territorial waters surrounding 
Svalbard shall be subject to the following supervision, based on the HSSC, in order to demonstrate that the ship 
complies with the requirements for construction and outfitting applicable to passenger ships in the territorial waters 
surrounding Svalbard: 
a) initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b) renewal survey every twelve months, cf. section 35; 
c) inspection of the outside of the ship's bottom at every renewal survey; 
i. at least two of the bottom inspections as required by subparagraph c shall during any five-year period be 
carried out when the ship is dry; 
ii. the interval between two inspections of the bottom when the ship is dry shall not exceed 36 months; 
iii. passenger ships following the special guidelines of the HSSC, may in lieu of the requirements pursuant to 
subparagraph c (i) and (ii), during any five-year period carry out one bottom inspection when the ship is dry. 
The five-year period coincides with the validity of the ship's International Load Line Certificate. 
Added by Regulation of 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020). 
Section 21  
Supervision for Passenger Certificate 
(1)  Ships required to have a Passenger Certificate shall be subject to the following supervision in order to demonstrate 
that the ship complies with the requirements for construction and outfitting applicable to passenger ships engaged on 
domestic voyages: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years; 
c)  annual survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate; 
d)  annual inspection of the outside of the ship's bottom; 
i.  at least two inspections of the ship's bottom shall during the five-year period of the validity of the 
Passenger Certificate be carried out when the ship is dry; 
ii.  the interval between two bottom inspections when the ship is dry shall not exceed 36 months; 
e)  initial survey, renewal survey and second or third annual survey during the period of validity of the certificate 
for passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages, shall also include measures against air and oil pollution. 
(2)  The Norwegian Maritime Authority shall have received the company's declaration on the prescribed form stating 
that the requirements of all applicable regulations are complied with, before the supervision may be carried out. 
(3)  Completed annual surveys shall be documented by endorsement of the certificate by the Norwegian Maritime 
Authority or other supervisory authorities. 
Section 22  
Safety Radio Certificate for non-convention ships 
(1)  The following ships shall have a Safety Radio Certificate for non-convention ships: 
a)  cargo ships of 8 metres in overall length and upwards engaged on domestic voyages in trade area 1 or greater, 
and cargo ships of less than 300 gross tonnage engaged on foreign voyages; 
b)  ships which are not used for commercial purposes; 
c)  passenger ships required to have a Passenger Certificate. 
(2)  The Safety Radio Certificate for non-convention ships is issued with a validity of up to five years. 
Section 23  
Supervision for Safety Radio Certificate 
for non-convention ships 
(1)  Ships required to have a Safety Radio Certificate for non-convention ships shall be subject to the following 
supervision, based on the HSSC, in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the applicable requirements for 
radiocommunication equipment: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; b)  annual survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate; 
c)  renewal survey every five years. 
(2)  Completed annual surveys shall be documented by endorsement of the radio certificate by the Norwegian 
Maritime Authority or other supervisory authorities. 
Amended by Regulation of 31 July 2019 No. 1036 (in force on 1 January 2020). 
Section 24  
Cargo Ship Trading Certificate 
(1)  The following ships shall have a Cargo Ship Trading Certificate with defined trade area: 
a)  cargo ships of 15 metres in overall length and upwards engaged on domestic voyages; 
b)  cargo ships of 15 metres in overall length and upwards, and of less than 500 gross tonnage, engaged on 
foreign voyages; 
c)  ships which are not used for commercial purposes; 
d)  barges which are either manned, used for the carriage of dangerous or polluting cargoes in bulk or used in 
trade area 3 or greater trade area. 
(2)  Valid class certificate, declaration of survey for electrical installations or installation attestation for electrical 
installations shall be available before a trading certificate may be issued. 
(3)  The trading certificate is issued with a validity of up to five years. 
(4)  Cargo ships and barges, of less than 50 gross tonnage, with building contract placed before 1 January 2015 and 
delivered before 1 January 2016, shall have a trading certificate pursuant to these Regulations at the latest: 
a)  on 1 January 2017 for ships the keel of which was laid on or after 1 January 1990; 
b)  on 1 January 2018 for ships the keel of which was laid before 1 January 1990. 
Section 25  
Supervision for Cargo Ship Trading Certificate 
(1)  Ships required to have a Cargo Ship Trading Certificate shall be subject to the following supervision in order to 
demonstrate that the ship complies with the requirements for construction and outfitting applicable to cargo ships, barges 
and ships not used for commercial purposes: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years; 
c)  intermediate survey between the second and third anniversary date of the certificate; 
d)  inspection of the outside of the ship's bottom at every renewal and intermediate survey; 
i.  inspections of the outside of the ship's bottom shall be carried out when the ship is dry; 
ii.  the interval between two bottom inspections shall not exceed 36 months. 
(2)  Initial survey, renewal survey and intermediate survey of cargo ships and barges which are engaged on domestic 
voyages and are not required to have an International Oil Pollution Prevention Certificate (IOPP) or International Air 
Pollution Prevention Certificate (IAPP), shall also include measures against oil and air pollution. 
(3)  The Norwegian Maritime Authority shall have received the company's declaration on the prescribed form stating 
that the requirements of all applicable regulations are complied with, before the supervision may be carried out. 
(4)  Completed intermediate surveys shall be documented by endorsement of the trading certificate by the Norwegian 
Maritime Authority or other supervisory authorities. 
Section 26  
Trading Certificate of Compliance for fishing vessel 
(1)  Fishing vessels shall have: 
a)  a Trading Certificate of Compliance for fishing vessel; 
b)  an Exemption Certificate showing terms for exemptions, if any, granted from the regulations of the 
Norwegian Maritime Authority. 
(2)  Valid class certificate, declaration of survey for electrical installations or installation attestation for electrical 
installations shall be available before the Trading Certificate of Compliance for fishing vessel may be issued. 
(3)  The Exemption Certificate pursuant to the first paragraph may not be given longer validity than the certificate of 
compliance. Section 27  
Supervision for Trading Certificate of Compliance for fishing vessel 
(1)  Fishing vessels shall be subject to the following surveys in order to demonstrate that the vessel complies with the 
requirements for construction and outfitting of fishing vessels: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is put into service; 
b)  renewal survey every five years; 
c)  intermediate survey between the second and third anniversary date of the certificate; 
d)  survey of radio installations and automatic identification system (AIS); 
i.  for vessels of 24 metres in length (L) and upwards and vessels with trade area bank fishing II or greater 
trade area, the survey shall be carried out within a time interval limited to three months before or after 
each anniversary date of the certificate; 
ii.  for vessels of less than 24 metres in length (L) certified for Bank fishing I or lesser trade areas, the 
survey shall be carried out within a time interval corresponding to subparagraph c; 
e)  inspection of the outside of the ship's bottom at every renewal and intermediate survey; 
i.  inspections of the outside of the ship's bottom shall be carried out when the ship is dry; 
ii.  the interval between two inspections of the outside of the ship's bottom shall not exceed 36 months; 
f)  initial survey and renewal survey of fishing vessels which are not required to have an International Oil 
Pollution Prevention Certificate (IOPP) or International Air Pollution Prevention Certificate (IAPP), shall 
also include measures against oil and air pollution. 
(2)  Completed intermediate surveys and surveys of radio installations shall be documented by endorsement of the 
certificate in question by the Norwegian Maritime Authority or other supervisory authorities. 
(3)  The Norwegian Maritime Authority shall have received the company's declaration on the prescribed form stating 
that the requirements of all applicable regulations are complied with, before the supervision may be carried out. 
Amended by Regulation of 10 November 2017 No. 1778 (in force on 16 November 2017). 
Section 28  
Certificate of Compliance for ships used in oil recovery operations 
(1)  Ships used in oil recovery drills or oil recovery operations shall in addition to their ordinary certificate or vessel 
instructions have a Certificate of Compliance for ships used in oil recovery operations, unless the permission to perform 
such operations follows from the ordinary certificate or the ordinary vessel instructions. 
(2)  The Certificate of Compliance for ships used in oil recovery operations is issued with the same expiry date as the 
ordinary certificate or the ordinary vessel instructions. For ships without another certificate, the Certificate of 
Compliance for ships used in oil recovery operations is issued with a period of validity of up to 30 months after completed 
survey. 
Section 29  
Supervision for Certificate of Compliance  
for ships used in oil recovery operations 
Ships required to have Certificate of Compliance for ships used in oil recovery operations shall be subject to the 
following surveys in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the requirements for vessels used in oil recovery 
operations: 
a)  initial survey for tow of oil booms before the ship is used in oil recovery operations; 
b)  renewal survey every five years if the ship has a trading certificate for cargo ships and barges or a trading 
certificate of compliance for fishing vessel; 
c)  renewal survey every 30 months for other vessels. The renewal survey may commence up to six months 
before the expiry of the certificate without amending the next date of expiry. 
Amended by Regulation of 10 November 2017 No. 1778 (in force on 16 November 2017). 
Section 30  
Certificate of Contingency Fitness for Standby Vessel 
(1)  Ships which shall have duties associated with the management of dangerous situations and casualties in the 
petroleum sector or which are employed on guard duty around offshore units, shall have a Certificate of Contingency 
Fitness for Standby Vessel in addition to cargo ship certificate. 
(2)  The Certificate of Contingency Fitness for Standby Vessel shall have an Annex indicating: 
a)  standby services for which the vessel is approved; 
b)  operational limitations; 
c)  the ship's standby and rescue capacity; 
d)  standby equipment which shall be available on board. (3)  The Certificate of Contingency Fitness for Standby Vessel is issued with a validity of up to five years. 
Section 31  
Supervision for Certificate of Contingency Fitness for Standby Vessel 
(1)  Ships required to have a Certificate of Contingency Fitness for Standby Vessel shall be subject to the following 
supervision in order to demonstrate that the ship complies with the requirements for standby vessels: 
a)  initial survey before the ship is used as standby vessel; 
b)  annual survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate; 
c)  renewal survey every five years. 
(2)  Completed annual surveys shall be documented by endorsement of the certificate by the Norwegian Maritime 
Authority or other supervisory authorities. 
Section 32  
Certificate requirements for ships intended  
to carry out towing operations 
(1)  Ships intended to carry out towing operations shall have: 
a)  safety certificates for cargo ships pursuant to section 8 second paragraph; or 
b)  Cargo Ship Trading Certificate pursuant to section 24 first paragraph (a) or (b) with endorsement for towing 
in the trading certificate. Towing restrictions, if any, shall be specified in the trading certificate. 
(2)  “Towing” means the towing or pushing of one or more objects. The towing of light objects, such as a dinghy, a 
light floating wharf or similar, is not considered towing as per this definition. 
Amended by Regulation of 18 December 2015 No. 1769 (in force on 1 January 2016), 18 December 2015 No. 1769 (in force on 1 January 2018). 
Section 33  
Supervision for ships intended to carry out towing operations 
Ships intended to carry out towing operations shall be subject to an initial survey in order to demonstrate that the ship 
complies with the requirements for stability, strength and outfitting before the ship is used in towing operations. 
Added by Regulation of 18 December 2015 No. 1769 (in force on 1 January 2016). 
Section 34  
Inspection and supervision of towing  
and anchor-handling arrangements 
(1)  Towing and anchor-handling arrangements shall be inspected at least once annually. 
(2)  The inspection pursuant to the first paragraph shall be carried out by qualified personnel on board in accordance 
with instructions from the manufacturer. The inspections shall also include emergency release. After the emergency 
release tests, dismantling shall be carried out to the extent deemed necessary. 
(3)  Every five years, the inspections referred to in the first paragraph shall be carried out in the presence of a 
representative from the Norwegian Maritime Authority or a recognised classification society. 
(4)  Documentation of completed inspections and supervision of towing and anchor-handling arrangements shall be 
kept on board. 
Added by Regulation of 18 December 2015 No. 1769 (in force on 1 January 2016). 
Section 34a  
International Ballast Water Management Certificate 
Ships of 400 gross tonnage and upwards engaged on foreign voyages, and mobile offshore units engaged on foreign 
voyages, which are constructed to carry ballast water, shall have a Ballast Water Management Certificate. 
The Ballast Water Management Certificate is issued with a validity of up to five years. 
Ships with a valid document of compliance demonstrating that the ship complies with the requirements of the 
International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's Ballast Water and Sediments, 2004, are required to 
have Ballast Water Management Certificate by the first annual survey, intermediate survey or renewal survey carried 
out on or after 8 September 2017, but not later than 8 December 2018. 
Added by Regulation of 8 September 2017 No. 1369. Section 34b  
Supervision for International Ballast Water Management Certificate 
Ships and mobile offshore units required to have a Ballast Water Management Certificate shall be subject to the 
following supervision in order to demonstrate compliance with the requirements for ballast water treatment: 
a)  initial survey before the certificate may be issued for the first time; 
b)  renewal survey every five years; 
c)  intermediate survey within three months before or after the second or third anniversary date of the certificate. 
The intermediate survey may take the place of the annual survey required by subparagraph d; 
d)  annual survey within a time interval limited to three months before or after each anniversary date of the 
certificate. 
If a change, replacement or substantial repair is carried out of the structure, equipment, systems, fittings, arrangements 
and material forming a part of the ballast water management system, a survey shall be carried out to verify compliance 
with the requirements for ballast water treatment. 
Completed surveys shall be documented by endorsement of the certificate by the Norwegian Maritime Authority or 
other supervisory authorities. 
Added by Regulation of 8 September 2017 No. 1369. 
Section 34c  
Supervision of ships not required to have Ballast Water Management Certificate 
Ships engaged on foreign voyages that are not required to have Ballast Water Management Certificate, cf. section 11a, 
shall be subject to survey for ballast water management in conjunction with: 
a)  the initial survey and second or third renewal survey in a five-year period for Passenger Ship Safety 
Certificate; 
b)  the initial survey, renewal survey and second or third periodical survey during the certificate period for High-
Speed Craft Safety Certificate; 
c)  the initial survey and intermediate survey during the certificate period for trading certificate for cargo ships; 
d)  the initial survey and intermediate survey during the certificate period for trading certificate for fishing 
vessels. 
Added by Regulation of 8 September 2017 No. 1369. 
Chapter 4  
The validity of certificates  
and the company’s duty to report 
Section 35  
Calculation of the expiry date of the certificates 
(1)  At the initial issue of certificates, the expiry date is calculated from the date of completion of the initial survey. 
(2)  At renewal of certificates, the new expiry date is calculated from: 
a)  the expiry date for the existing certificate when the renewal survey is completed three months before the 
expiry date of the existing certificate or later; 
b)  the date of completion of the renewal survey when it is completed more than three months before the expiry 
date of the existing certificate. 
(3)  When ships or mobile offshore units have been laid-up or have been inoperative due to repairs and changes over 
a significant period of time, the new duration of certificates may be calculated from the date of the renewal survey even 
when this is completed after the expiry date of the existing certificate. 
(4)  When annual, intermediate or periodical survey is carried out before the time periods indicated in the Regulations: 
a)  the anniversary date of the certificate shall be amended by endorsement to a date which shall not be more 
than three months later than the date on which the survey was completed; 
b)  the expiry date of the certificate may remain unchanged, if surveys are carried out in such a way that the 
permitted intervals between required surveys are not exceeded. Section 36  
Harmonisation of the expiry dates of the certificates 
(1)  The expiry date of international certificates for passenger ships engaged on international voyages shall be 
harmonised with the anniversary date of the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate. The expiry date of certificates with a 
five-year validity shall be harmonised with the expiry date of the ship’s International Load Line Certificate. 
(2)  The expiry date of international certificates for cargo ships shall be harmonised with: 
a)  the expiry date of the class certificate when the certificate is issued by a recognised classification society; 
b)  the expiry date of the Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate, for cargo ships not classed by a recognised 
classification society; 
c)  the expiry date of the International Load Line Certificate, for cargo ships of less than 500 gross tonnage not 
classed in a recognised classification society. 
(3)  The expiry date of the Maritime Labour Certificate need not be harmonised pursuant to the first and second 
paragraphs. 
Section 37  
Extension of the validity of the certificates 
(1)  The certificates of cargo ships, barges, passenger ships and mobile offshore units may be endorsed to extend the 
validity by up to five months from the expiry date of the certificates, when a renewal survey has been completed and the 
new certificate cannot be placed on board the ship or the mobile offshore unit before the expiry date of the existing 
certificate. The first sentence shall apply accordingly to Ballast Water Management Certificates for fishing vessels. 
(2)  Cargo ships, barges and passenger ships engaged on foreign voyages or a mobile offshore unit, which are not in 
a port where the survey may be conducted before the expiry of the certificates, may upon application from the company 
have their certificates endorsed to extend the validity by up to three months. The extension may only be granted for the 
purpose of allowing the ship or mobile offshore unit to complete a voyage to a port where it may be surveyed, and only 
when the extension is justifiable. The provisions of the first and second sentence shall apply accordingly to Ballast Water 
Management Certificates for fishing vessels. 
(3)  Fishing vessels may have the validity of the Trading Certificate of Compliance for fishing vessels extended by up 
to one year when the Norwegian Maritime Authority finds it reasonable, the validity of the certificate has not previously 
been extended, and a complete survey of the interior of the vessel, and an inspection of the outside as far as possible 
without placing the vessel in dock or a slipway, show that the vessel complies with the certificate requirements. 
(4)  Fishing vessels which are not in a Norwegian port when the trading certificate expires, may have the validity of 
the certificate extended until the vessel arrives at a port where the survey may be carried out, however not by more than 
five months after the original expiry date. 
(5)  Ships or mobile offshore units with a certificate issued for a short voyage where the certificate has not been 
extended pursuant to the first or second paragraph, may upon application from the company have the certificate endorsed 
to extend the validity by up to one month from the expiry date of the certificate. Short voyage means a voyage where 
neither the voyage from the port of departure to the port of destination nor the return voyage exceeds 1,000 nautical 
miles. The provisions of the first and second sentence shall apply accordingly to Ballast Water Management Certificates 
for fishing vessels. 
(6)  Fishing vessels with a certificate which has not been extended pursuant to the fourth paragraph, may be granted 
an extension of the validity of the certificate of up to one month. 
Amended by Regulation of 8 September 2017 No. 1369. 
Section 38  
Availability of certificate 
(1)  Original certificates pursuant to these Regulations shall be readily available on board for control purposes. 
(2)  The MLC report from the inspection of working and living conditions shall be made available to all persons 
working on board. The Maritime Labour Certificate and the Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance shall be posted 
on board in a place where they are available to all persons working on board. 
Section 39  
Cease of certificate validity 
(1)  A certificate ceases to be valid when: 
a)  it has expired; 
b)  supervision has not been completed within the prescribed deadlines; 
c)  the certificate has not been endorsed by the Norwegian Maritime Authority or other supervisory authorities; 
d)  the ship or mobile offshore unit is transferred to another country's ship register; e)  significant changes have been made to the ship or the mobile offshore unit, or to equipment on board, without 
supervision being carried out; 
f)  the condition of the hull, machinery or equipment of the ship or the mobile offshore unit is deteriorated to 
such an extent that the requirements which form the basis for the certificate are no longer satisfied.  
(2)  A certificate which has ceased to be valid, may become valid again when the invalidity is due to lack of supervision 
and the supervision in question is completed, or when the certificate is endorsed by the Norwegian Maritime Authority 
or other supervisory authorities. 
(3)  The Norwegian Maritime Authority may require more comprehensive supervision when supervision has not been 
completed within the prescribed deadlines. 
Section 40  
The company’s duty to report 
The company shall report to the Norwegian Maritime Authority when: 
a)  a ship or mobile offshore unit has been involved in an accident or other incident, or a deficiency is discovered, 
either of which affects the safety in such a way that the validity of the certificate could be influenced. When 
the ship or mobile offshore unit is in the port of another State, the appropriate authorities of that State shall 
also receive a report; 
b)  the class of a ship or mobile offshore unit in a recognised classification society is deleted. The reason for the 
deletion shall be stated. 
Chapter 5  
Concluding provisions 
Section 41  
Exemptions 
(1)  The Norwegian Maritime Authority may grant exemptions from the certificate requirements of these Regulations 
when the company upon written application establishes that the exemption will be justifiable in terms of safety. An 
exemption may be granted to: 
a)  a ship engaged on domestic voyages which shall undertake a single voyage in a greater trade area than the 
trade area for which is it certified, even if the voyage to be undertaken is a foreign voyage; 
b)  a ship engaged on domestic voyages which shall to carry more passengers than the number of passenger for 
which it is certified; 
c)  a ship which, by way of compensating measures, maintains the same level of safety as required by these 
Regulations; 
d)  a ship which shall do a trial run; 
e)  a cargo ship for which, at the intermediate survey or at the second or third annual survey during a certificate 
period, a bottom inspection is required when the ship is dry. Such an exemption requires that a satisfactory 
bottom inspection of the ship can be carried out with the ship afloat. 
(2)  Ships and mobile offshore units may be granted an exemption from requirements of these Regulations if the 
enforcement of the requirements for construction, rescue and radio means that innovative solutions cannot be used. For 
ships or mobile offshore units which shall be engaged on international voyages, an exemption pursuant to this paragraph 
may be granted from any requirement if the State at which the ship is to call is informed of and accepts the exemption. 
Section 42  
Entry into force 
(1)  These Regulations enter into force on 1 January 2015. 
(2)  As from the same date, the following regulations are repealed: 
a)  Regulations of 15 June 1987 No. 506 on survey for the issue of certificates to passenger ships, cargo ships 
and lighters, and concerning other surveys, etc.; 
b)  Regulations of 4 September 1987 No. 855 on notification of newbuilding, survey, and certification etc. of 
mobile offshore units. 
Section 43  
Amendments to other regulations 
From 1 January 2015 the following amendments are made to other regulations: Regulations of 19 August 2013 No. 998 on the right to lodge complaints for persons working on board are amended 
as follows: - - - 
Regulations of 28 March 2000 No. 305 on surveys, construction and equipment of passenger ships engaged on 
domestic voyages are amended as follows: - - - 
Regulations of 13 June 2000 No. 660 on the construction, operation, equipment and surveys of fishing vessels of 15 m 
in overall length (LOA) and over are amended as follows: - - - 
Regulations of 8 February 2011 No. 130 on vessels used in oil recovery operations are amended as follows: - - - 
Regulations of 16 October 1991 No. 853 on standby vessels are amended as follows: - - - 
